ID145	It is confusing how in some cases two mutations can cause the normal phenotype so when you are looking at phenotypes how can you tell if there is a mutation? I understand that if you already know there were 2 mutations, and the normal phenotype is shown then that means that the two mutations were not on the same gene.
ID069	While I understand the outcome, I had trouble explaining the cause to others who asked. I'm still a little confused as to the exact mechanics of this concept.
ID029	This topic is still not clear to me. I have looked at my lecture notes and still do not feel confident in it, so I am going to look it up in the textbook before going to my professor with questions.
ID116	I need to study more to ensure that I know the definition of complementation.
ID148	I am not sure of how to change the ratios when there is a change in the genes
ID109	I am so confused because I need more practice or examples of the material. She moves way too fast in class, and I don't even have time to figure out what I don't know. The book is too basic compared to the lectures.
ID065	This makes most sense to me because I understand how decreased protein synthesis can yield decreased function that the specific protein is responsible for.
ID105	This confused me because it was very briefly covered and hard to follow.
ID093	I was confused on the methods of complementation testing. I do not understand how complementation testing can discover recessive mutants only if they are on different genes.
ID039	It was difficult for me because it was hard for me to wrap my head around the fact that there were so many different ways and causes that could change the ratio.
ID041	It was just a little confusing to understand how the same phenotype can result from different genes.
ID060	I have only grasp the surface of this concept. I didn't understand well when Dr. Hughes went over it. But I've yet to read over it in the book.
ID024	I do not quite understand how this works. It is very confusing.
ID078	I wasn't sure how to determine which certain yield phenotypes that dont follow the 9:3:3:1 phenotypic ratio
ID046	I don't quite understand this, either due to less coverage in class compared to the others or my own inattentiveness.
ID068	I find it hard to understand what determines if an allele is the "wild type" allele and what determines the wild populations.
ID146	Simply, I just do not recall this concept from our lecture or notes. It is a more specific scenario than any of the other concepts and involves testing I would need to understand and comprehend what their results imply.
ID063	I'm lost with this topic. I don't understand how you can mate 2 flies and determine if complementation has occurred or what variables you must filter out in order to determine the complementation. I'm not sure what is being asked about the challenges in learning concepts using a specific language, so I'll say this: Learning a foreign language was no challenge at all. It's actually simple if you are aware of the rules. However medical terminology was a bugger to learn due to the complexity of each word and their specific meanings.
ID000	I would guess that they find F2 rations challenging
ID118	It is very unique concept as the mutation on same gene or different gene can be analyzed, but its very different from other concepts
ID008	Is there anyway to determine why one allele can be chosen over the other? Is there a way that one allele can be dominant over an similar allele?
ID033	Which alleles are found in wild populations
ID119	This topic is the most challenging to me to understand because I honestly do not know what complementation testing is. I now know from this survey that this testing can determine if two mutations mutations are affecting the same trait are in the same gene, but that is it. I understand what this statement means, but that is the only thing I know about complementation testing which is why I need to read the textbook and review my notes so that I can confidently explain complementation testing to someone.
ID123	I do not understand the general idea on complementation testing.  I do not comprehend what the test does nor how it is performed.
ID132	I'm still unsure with the ratio language. I know what 9:3:3:1 means but I just need better explaination on it. I understand dihybrid crosses and F2 generation.
ID094	This is the hardest to understand as it is a complex permutation of the typical simple 9:3:3:1 ratio, but I understand it.
ID150	I don't understand how the override physically happens on a gene. Also, I'm not sure why exactly this exists especially with cell regulation in place.
ID143	Complementation testing is difficult to understand because it is hard to believe that mutations affecting the same trait may not actually exist within the same gene.  It is also difficult to understand exactly how scientists are able to use this method to determine the effects of mutations simply by comparing the genotypes of organisms.
ID026	I understand that this happens often, but I am not sure why it does. I would like to be able to find out why certain genes are dominant and others are able to be masked by others.
ID007	Allelic combinations and multiple alleles I have studied in depth before.  Complementation testing is a fairly simple concept.  So deviation from 9:3:3:1 ratios was the most difficult of these topics but I found that the examples in the book and in lecture were plenty sufficient to understand how to analyze them.
ID022	i did not understand the example of bees having wing or not.
ID057	This test is the most confusing to me. I am confused on exactly how the test proves that the two mutations affecting the same trait are in the same gene.
ID136	That increases the diversity within a population.
ID079	I do not understand how the gene interactions work and which genes can be influenced by interactions.
ID090	This concept was the most difficult for me as we went through it fairly quickly in lecture and not spend much time was spent having us practice determining how an these phenotypes occur. I would appreciate more opportunities to practice and less vague examples.
ID091	It took a while to understand the exact mechanism of determining whether a gene was related to another.
ID075	I am a little confused because I know that multiple alleles exist. But I am trouble relating them to wild populations.
ID083	I do not fully understand this concept because I have not spent much time looking over and reading this section of the text yet
ID048	I don't understand this concept.
ID014	I do not quite understand this concept partially because I have yet to read about it.
ID144	Sometimes seeing ratios confuse me and make me think a lot more about whats going on
ID100	I don't understand how this process works. I need to read more about it.
ID040	I have had some trouble understanding how the tests worked. I do not understand the thought process behind it.
ID115	I have some issues understanding how this can be seen mathematically. If I had more practice or exposure to problems, I might understand better.
ID108	I am not sure how to do the crosses for the epistatic ratios of 9:3:4 and 9:7 and would love to review this in the future.
ID076	some cases appear to have too few details to be able to determine this without the use of more advanced DNA analysis techniques/lab equipment
ID089	There are so many different possibilities of the different types of interactions, that it is often overwhelming to try to decipher what exactly is happening where. While the only example questions in class are given under pressure to finish them in time, given enough time, I think that I could answer a question involving these interactions.
ID018	There are many different cases and situations to remember that go with this concept, so I have not mastered it and memorized all of the extra pieces.
ID020	I'm not really sure what complementation testing is.
ID052	Although I know that deviation from this ratio may result in epistasis, however I don't understand the significance of this particular ratio.
ID113	I don't understand why multiple alleles are usually presented in populations.
ID070	It is just so much information to obtain and learn at once without breaking it down in great detail.
ID011	I guess the hardest part about this concept was understanding if the two mutations have to be in the same gene in order to affect a single trait.  I do not quite understand the importance of the two mutations being in the same gene.  What does it matter if they are in the same gene or not? Wouldn't the important thing in this concept be identifying which two mutations are affecting the trait? I am sure there is a valid reason as to why the mutations being on the same gene is important, but I cannot remember why it would be any different from the mutations being from different genes.
ID023	I believe that variations in phenotypic ratios were the hardest to understand. I do not think that it is impossible to understand, just difficult. This topic requires practice more than general understanding.
ID141	I am not as comfortable with the concepts concerning complementation testing as I am with the three other choices.
ID047	For the most part I understand this concept. The reason I gave it a lower rating over understanding is because I didn't really follow the rII of phage T4 and Neurospora examples in lecture.
ID103	This was the most difficult concept to understand. I tried to find some alternative explanations online and became more confused.
ID015	I don't exactly understand how complementation works. I get what the testing tells you but I am not sure how it came about.
ID142	I do not think I fully understand how to analyze this data. If given a problem where I need to determine where the mutations affecting a trait are in genes than I do not think I will be able to solve it. I also do not fully understand the mechanism through which two mutations not in the same gene can affect the same trait.
ID050	I just don't understand properly on how the process occurs and where it is applied in the real world.
ID129	I don't grasp fully how complementation testing works. Does it only work if each mutant phenotype is due to a recessive mutation?
ID013	I understand the purpose of this test, but I do not understand what it means when two genes complement each other. I also do not understand the process by which this test is performed and how the results will show that the mutations are in the same gene.
ID084	I have just not completely understood all ratios. In the notes there is a list of the ratios with the examples, such as mice or squash shape. I just need to read through the book further and figure out the exact name of the interactions.It just happened too fast in class. I think I can do this for myself though.
ID092	It's confusing but I read the book
ID073	Have trouble distinguishing between the different types of incomplete and codominance
ID028	The different types of a dihybrid cross that can come out are sometimes confusing to understand.
ID002	I struggled to understand this concept in that it made little sense at first on how mutations in two different spots can fix one another and the phenotype be normal. Understanding this abstract concept was hard for me to get. I went back and reread notes and the section in the chapter to get a better understanding
ID107	I still get a little confused on this topic. I know that multiple alleles of genes lead to multiple expressions in a wild population, but it is confusing that there can be multiple alleles in a population but only two on a gene.
ID098	I honestly feel like I have a solid understanding of all of the topics listed here. If I had to pick one as the weakest, though, I suppose I would chose this one, because it is a large and complex topic. The other three options are more straight forward.
ID127	I need to understand exactly what complementation testing is and look at a few examples to fully  understand this concept.
ID151	Since this concept was knew to me, it took a little longer for me to understand the basic concepts and the necessity of this test.
ID027	I understand the concept, but I do not understand the specifics of how this works.
ID045	I find this challenging because I don't understand how two phenotypes can be expressed simulatneously.
ID140	Would want more details on this.
ID114	I understand this concept very well, however I am confused about why some allelic combinations result in a masked allele and why some result in an intermediate phenotype. Why are some allelic combinations favored to mask another allele while others will (almost) always produce an intermediate? For example, why is skin tone the result of an allelic combination that produces an intermediate phenotype? What prevents these alleles from masking another?
ID121	i don't understand how to get that ratio
ID055	This topic is very broad and is complicated to talk about. I have a hard time talking about this topic sense it is so general and a little confused about it as well. I don't really know what to say except for the topic itself.
ID085	This was confusing at times, because of how it was not indicated where the mutant gene was in the diagrams and pictures. However, working with a friend, we were able to figure it out using the lecture notes.
ID101	This question is not clear if the topic is regarding lethal genes or the diversity of genes. Also the ambiguity of wild populations on the same allele make the topic its self very difficult to understand.
ID128	I understand how this one is true but understanding the relevance was more difficult for me.
ID061	I am a little confused by complementation testing because I don't fully understand how it can successfully predict the likelihood of a recessive trait being expressed in offspring. I understand that both parents will be homozygous recessive for the allele being considered but I'm not sure how it is determined whether or not the alleles are mutations of the same gene or if they are mutations of different genes affecting the same phenotype. How can that confidently be determined from the offspring?
ID053	This concept was hardest for me to understand.  I do not fully know the actual procedure for complementation testing, though I understand that it can tell us whether mutations are in the same gene.
ID072	I had a hard time learning about this topic, I'm not quite sure why there seemed to be a comprehending learning block on this topic with me, I just found it very confusing.
ID080	I don't really understand this yet, I think I can get a good grasp on it but I don't exactly know what the certain phenotypes mean.
ID096	I am still confused on how analyzing the final results can determine the two alleles and the mutations that occur. I understand what the testing is, but still unsure on how it is done.
ID117	It is hard for me to differentiate between multiple alleles and multiple phenotypes. The wording of this section was particularly difficult for me, and it doesn't help that I sometimes fail to grasp alleles and what they are specifically because it isn't a term I've been around for a very long time.
ID034	ao organism is constructed and determined by many alleles and genes
ID133	This is misconstrued because the alleles in a population could from anywhere.
ID059	The calculation of the ratios depending on the crosses have confused me pertaining to the gene interactions and crossing of genetic differences .
ID077	I find complementation the most complicated to understand due to how the placement of the gene can result in different phenotypes.
ID021	It is hard to learn a concept and then understand deviations of that concept. I do not know examples of deviations or how this plays out in real life.
ID044	learning and understanding different gene interactions is very important but has been challenging
ID010	I am not sure about this topic. I need to meet with my TA to further discuss.
ID016	I know what wild type alleles are, but it never clicked with me why mutations are most common on those alleles. Also, how do we know what the wild type is for a gene? Can there not be more than one type found in nature?
ID111	I'm still a little confused about why this occurs. I understand how to test it and see it, but I'm not sure how it occurs on it's own or exactly wheat the outcomes are when this happens.
ID124	placements on genes are confusing
ID082	I think this concept is the hardest to understand because it is vague. I understand this concept at face value--that multiples alleles exist, but I don't feel 100% certain I could thoroughly explain the implications of this concept.
ID051	I could not grasp the subject outside of a broad definition of the material. I will re read my notes and study this material better to gain a better understanding.
ID149	I honestly haven't read this in the book yet. That's my problem.
ID038	I understand these concepts well because I have been using these concepts in lab since freshman year.
ID134	There was little detail given upon this subject, and I lack understanding upon its real world applications somewhat
ID130	This topic is just confusing.
ID099	Several different modes of inheritance that interact in similar ways though the mechanism is different
ID086	I had a hard time figuring out where interactions caused the changes in the standard ratios.
ID137	I understand the basic concept of complementation and I understand how two organisms with mutant alleles cross to form offspring with a wild type allele. This is only a basic understanding, and I did have to think longer over this concept because at first I didn't understand how two mutation could affect the phenotype.
ID035	I have a hard time taking this concept and elaborating on it. I feel like there was not very man examples that helped understand the concept more, that would help me understand a little bit more.
ID031	I just do not understand how the gene could be masked.
ID095	I still haven't fully comprehended how to tell if a trait is represented on the same gene or different genes.  We've learned that certain phenotypes can be represented by multiple genes but I'm unsure how it can be determined by the same gene or different.
ID138	I am just a little unsure of what this statement means. I am not sure if it is referring to how in wild populations, there is more genetic variability, or simply how there are multiple alleles for every gene in general.
ID030	This was a slightly confusing topic that was totally new to me. I need to review how mutations in on gene indicate whether two mutations are in the same one.
ID058	I partially understand the example in lecture of the molecular mechanism for suppression, but I was confused as to why in the first example as long as they were homozygous things worked and in the second example it has to be homozygous wild type to function properly. Also, how the ratios could vary so much for different properties. I wish that table had had at least one of them worked out so one could see how those ratios were arrived at.
ID081	I find this hard to comprehend because I don't understand how a mutation can occur on two separate genes, but when both mutations are crossed together they create a wild phenotype?
ID005	I have not read up on this topic.
ID088	It is just difficult to understand exactly how it works.
ID043	This is interesting yet challenging because I cannot imagine finding the specific gene code in the sequence. Science is so advanced.
ID056	I was really confused upon first investigating the topic. I thought about the whole process backwards. It was difficult to put to mind that if the gene was located on the same loci (alleles) that the mutation would not be fixed. But after reading deeper into the topic it makes sense that the mutation could not be complemented (fixed) because the other chromosome pair did not contain the information to make the gene normal.
ID049	It is still a little unclear of how genes complement each other and how this test determines that. The slides with the wingless flies are a little confusing and I did not understand how that led to the understanding of two genes complementing each other when all the parents had the mutations on one gene , but were wingless and the offspring of the complemented gene had wings , but had mutations on both genes
ID104	The topic wasn't covered thoroughly during lecture and I wasn't able to wrap my head around what she was talking about. I am completely lost on this topic but I will review and make sure that I do understand it.
ID003	trying to get the correct ratio
ID006	The ratios ultimatley confuse me at times when we switch from generation to generation
ID112	I don't really understand the different type of gene reactions, if it's dihybrid don't we already know it's different genes
ID131	I found this challenging because I do not understand exactly why the other phenotype is masked. I see that one allele "outweighs the other, but chemically I am unclear on the reasoning.
ID065	This confuses me sometimes because I have trouble tracing through all the genes and all the crosses. It takes me a while to wrap my head around these types of problems but I plan to study them more.
ID038	It was intriguing to know that environment can have a significant effect on your phenotype. I thought genes controlled everything.
ID118	there are many ways crossing over can occur which is totally random
ID081	It's hard for me to understand why the genes become silenced. Are they randomly silenced or does the overall genome or environment the organism is in affect the silencing of genes?
ID134	Partially vague
ID035	I was confused on being able to elaborate on this term from more than just what I had Leander in the slides and books
ID055	I was confused about this topic after reading over the slides and in the book. I do understand that this helps in variation but not all of the details that are involved.
ID109	I understand all of these concepts pretty well, and the only reason I picked this one is because I think we spent less time on it than the others.
ID069	I don't think enough time was spent on this topic in class. Perhaps it will be covered more in depth later on in the course, but this week it was only touched on briefly, and its mention in the chapter was light.
ID027	The process is the hard part to understand. I do understand it, but it was the most challenging to grasp. The concept is straight forward.
ID079	I understand when crossing over and recombination occur and what outcomes they produce, but I do not have a clear understanding of what actually takes place during each.
ID048	I am having trouble grasping the concepts of this.
ID039	Epigenetics was hard for me to grasp because there were so many different mechanisms
ID094	We didn't see many examples of this in class, so its harder to understand it.
ID007	I found recombination the most difficult, not because of the concept itself but because of the complexity of problems about gene mapping that arise from the ability to use its effects.
ID105	I was very confused on this subject and it wasn't covered very throughly.
ID033	It's such a broad topic.
ID026	I was not exactly sure why they are so valuable among organisms or what their main purpose is.
ID070	This is the most challenging
ID057	These topics can get very confusing because they all look and sound similar but they are very different in genetics. I have trouble distinguishing good real life examples of each of the traits they display.
ID050	We have not covered that extensively in class and I am just a little confused as to how it is pertinent.
ID089	Because we have spent so little time on epigenetics, and it seems to be such a big topic, I would say that this is the most difficult to understand at the moment. All that I know is that acquired traits can be inherited through changes to DNA.
ID150	The topic is very general. I know generally what it refers to and how it applies to genetics, but I could not give specific examples because I'm not exactly sure what falls into the category of "epigentics."
ID024	I just do not know what it is or why it is important
ID077	I feel like we haven't gone into much detail about epigenetics. I feel like it was only briefly touched on or maybe she didn't specifically say epigenetics. I am going to read the book for a further understanding because class didn't help much.
ID013	I found this topic to be the most challenging because I did not understand how these acquired traits can be inherited. We learned how traits can be influenced by the environment, but I do not understand why these specific traits' phenotype can depend on whether it was inherited by the mother or the father.
ID056	I found epigenetics hard to understand because not many examples were provided in the book. I understand what epigenetics is about, it's just hard to talk about in detail.
ID014	I do not understand how epigentics works and how the factors such as methylation can affect the expression of the genes.
ID138	I am just not very sure what Epigenetics means. I have ready over it in the notes online and am still very confused.
ID095	I don't completely know all outcomes capable of a recombination event.  Several factors affect how genes can be recombined (how many times crossing over occurs, how many genes we're observing, etc.). This is material I need to go over again.
ID068	i have trouble understanding how the gene silencing occurs and how it is passed down to the offspring as well as how to detect it.
ID062	It was hard for me to reconcile the actual concepts with real life applications.
ID103	I found the epigenetic the most difficult concept to learn because of the complex interactions between the environment and the expression of genes.
ID061	I understand that conditional mutants exist but I am not sure if they help or hurt an organism. I am really curious as to their impact on an organism's well-being.
ID063	I feel like this is a case by case type of topic. The chemicals that influence are genes can vary greatly.
ID129	I am very confused about this topic. I don't really understand how it works or its importance to genetics as a whole. I know that it is related to the temperature dependence in some Drosophilia, but other than that I'm not sure where else it occurs in nature or why it is a big topic.
ID075	I found this challenging because we did not cover it in the class with more examples of its application.
ID123	Crossing over and recombination is a hard concept to grasp because I don't know how the mechanism works.  The inheritance of the alleles is not clear to me.
ID008	A certain disease only shows up in women in a pedigree.
ID090	This concept is much less clear to me as it was only briefly discussed in lecture with no examples given. I would like specific examples of this topic for better clarity.
ID000	This topic requires considerable synthesis of a number of disparate ideas
ID043	This is very confusing at some times since there is one gene influencing other genes, etc.
ID131	I had issues with the various patterns of recombination and how they could have different probabilities of being passed on.
ID115	I find them confusing as I seem to mix sex influenced traits with sex limited traits. Also, we did not go over them in too much detail in lecture.
ID052	I do not understand the mechanisms through which epigenetics works and also the significance of how DNA methylation is involved. What factors are important to consider when studying epigenetics?
ID023	I found it difficult to follow the steps or crossing over and recombination. I need to make a flow chart and be able to understand what exactly occurs. However, I am confident of my general understanding of this topic.
ID049	It's hard to wrap my head around how this occurs physically. I understand that exchange occurs at the chiasma, but I am wondering if it matters which homologous chromatids exchange material.
ID078	I don't understand how they are valuable, I understand what causes some of them, but not why it is important.
ID099	Still pretty unclear on what it is and how it functions
ID145	I missed class the day we discussed this so I do not have  a solid understanding.
ID031	There are just so many different ways that this can happen through it is hard to keep track of.
ID091	This topic seems to me the most confusing and in depth topic.
ID060	.
ID151	Besides the possibility of isolating and extracting the gene through the use of PCR machines for example, what are some other reasons that conditional mutants are highly valued in genetics. What other research questions can this one sucject answer?
ID040	I understand the different examples presented for conditional mutants but I have trouble understanding their value in the field of genetics.
ID086	This was challenging to learn, because you have to take into account that males have one X while females have two X chromosomes.
ID058	I understand what crossing over is and why it is important, but sometimes struggle to understand how one figures out how genes are arranged on a chromosome and the ratios.
ID092	I'm really unsure about this
ID121	i am completely lost on the process of crossing over in terms of how it happens and what results after the process
ID074	I understand the basic concept of these terms, but i dont feel we went over enough material to explain how to determine which is which from data
ID034	there are too many contents  between crossing one and crossing double.
ID064	At first the difference between sex influenced and sex limited traits confused me because the words are so similar, but after reading the textbook a few times I realized the distinction.
ID088	It is tricky to understand.
ID137	These three concepts are all different, however I only know the basic functionality of these traits. I am still unable to differentiate between the names without looking through my notes.
ID082	Going off my answer on the last page, I think I am the most uncomfortable with epigenesis  because this term is so broad and entails so many different concepts within it. While I think I understand what we have covered thus far, I hope I have a deep enough understand to satisfy the extensiveness of this course.
ID124	It was talked about least in class and covers such a broad field
ID002	It was difficult to follow at first, but the examples show in class have helped a lot. Reading the textbook helped me grasp it better.
ID005	I just have not had a thorough explanation to this concept.
ID051	Outside of the fact that the general definition for Epigenetics is the study of chemical reactions and the factors that influence them i have a hard time understanding the mechanisms that make this all work.
ID144	I thought that epigenetics was the more confusing this to learn. It is tough for me to wrap my head around this concept.
ID076	what are the varying degrees that can occur from this? is it only wild type genes that this occurs with? is it still considered a wild type gene
ID101	This concept is very abstract and the special cases where this occurs must be very broad, and difficult to differentiate between normal phenotypes and conditional mutants that occur.
ID108	I am confused on what conditions mutants are most valuable in.
ID011	I do not feel as though I understand how genes are influenced by the environment.  It sounds similar to the conditional mutants topic to me.  I cannot recall any examples of epigenetics that I could use to explain it or how it works in an organism.
ID098	I just really don't understand the concept of epigenetics. I know that is too general, but you are presupposing that I have already spend a bunch of time trying to understand it. I haven't. I don't know about the rest of the students in this class, but that isn't really how college works, at least not for me. Between being in classes, working (unpaid) for 8 hours a week in a lab, and attempting to squeeze enough hours in at my paid lifeguarding job just to buy gas and groceries, I don't have time to just dive into every single concept that I don't understand during the first week of class that it's presented. I am just trying to stay afloat here. I learn by hearing certain topics mentioned in class until I gain a basic understanding of them, and then I will go back and research further before the exam if I feel that I really don't have a handle on something. The challenges that I have experienced in learning about epigenetics is that I just haven't put much time into it yet. But I'll get there. I'd have more time to get there if I didn't have to waste an hour filling this survey out every week though.
ID107	I understand the basic concepts of crossing over and recombination, but I am still trying to understand all of the ways in which recombination can occur in detail.
ID029	It is hard to visualize some conditional mutations phenotypes. The mutation is not always a noticeable phenotype change.
ID128	I just don't really remember the definition of epigenetics so it's not that didn't understand, I just don't remember what it is.
ID093	Recognizing a sex linked trait through a pedigree can be quite challenging if not inspected closely. I understand that an X linked dominant trait will skip a generation if the male parent is affected. Epistasis and modified gene ratios, although unrelated, are other areas that will require more practice before the test.
ID114	I understand what conditional mutants are, but I'm not completely sure I understand how these mutants would be produced in different temperatures if the organism which is producing a daughter organism are only able to survive in one climate. Unless it just means that because it is a mutant, the standard rules of producing in a certain climate don't apply because these genes alter the denaturing point of proteins. I also would like to know more about the conditional mutants that can occur in humans (if there are any).
ID119	I somewhat understand the concept and how it is dependent on the environment, but that is all that I know about this term. I do not really know its cause or its effect in the big picture of genetics, which is why I have set out about an hour out of my day tomorrow to review some terms from class that I am more unfamiliar with.
ID016	I am not sure what is meant by conditional mutant. Under what condition is something mutated? Maybe I do understand the concept but the wording is off.
ID113	I don't fully understand the actually definition of epigenetics and how/why it occurs
ID133	There wasn't a lot of time spent on this topic in class. Because of this, the details of this topic were unclear to me.
ID010	Don't really understand the reactions behind it.
ID111	Crossing over can be hard to determine by simply looking at a gene sequence because there can be multiple cross overs that make the end product the same as it would be if there was no crossing over. I also get confused when you do cross overs and then try to figure out what the new end product is now. Recombination goes hand in hand with crossing over and it essentially is just putting the pieces together from multiple places/sources.
ID044	I dont remember the lecture for this topic very well.  I just mainly need the definition and then to study it
ID080	I just am not aware of what all goes into this. Its a very broad and detailed study.
ID102	I am really unsure of what it is. I have not covered that topic on my own, I have to read myself in order to understand it to my best ability.
ID149	I don't feel like this topic was explained as much as the other three. I haven't read the text on this yet, but I am doing so tomorrow.
ID127	There are a lot of different types of conditional mutants and its complicated to remember all of them
ID021	I do not understand this mechanism completely yet.
ID047	I doo not see how this is different from conditional mutants. I feel like their definitions are pretty similar. I need to know what are the main points that differentiate them.
ID100	I'm just a little confused on this because of course a dominant trait will mask a recessive trait.
ID073	When it comes too recessive and dominant sex linked traits, I am confused about how they are inherited and what influences the number of offspring to carry them,  I am also confused when looking at a pedigree and understanding which type of trait is shown.
ID096	I am confused by this topic. I think that I understand the basic idea but am having trouble grasping the concept.
ID059	I didn't understand the overall topic in general. I mixed this my understanding of this topic with the value of conditional mutants concepts. So i plan to go to a review session this week, and make an effort to actually read the chapter again.
ID132	We didn't really discuss this in class yet so I'm not sure how important it is yet but I do plan to read about it in the text.
ID084	I have not covered this topic well. I don't remember the lesson from class well and need to study this topic from the book further.
ID020	I am not sure what epigentics is.
ID027	I do not believe this was explained well in class. The concept was introduced, but without reading the book, I do not know enough to analyze my understanding as I "don't know what I don't know."
ID094	This is complex so was hard to follow in lecture but I understand it.
ID039	This was most difficult for me to grasp. Trying to determine the correct order of the alleles was where i struggled at. The explanation of determine the gene order was unclear and we didn't do many examples in class. Also with determining the frequencies was difficult for me because at when we we going over it in class I didn't know the formula and  i didn't understand which of the values were used to determined the frequency
ID089	This is one of the few topics that i feel we covered even almost sufficiently in class. It was difficult at first. But now i understand if after reading over my notes and my text book. As i said previously, the text book is VITAL to understanding anything that is going on in class.
ID116	I do not have a clear understanding of this. I need to have more examples to understand it better.
ID033	its extremely important to understand how genes can cross into sister chromatids increasing overall genetic variance.
ID098	I feel like I have a good understanding of haplotypes and how they influence our organization of the Tree of Life. Likewise, I feel like I have a good grasp on the systematic/mathematical way in which you can determine linkage, whether with two or three genes. I don't, however, feel like I have the same hold on the idea of microsatellites and their applications. I have a basic understanding, that microsatellites are tandem repeats of base pairs and the number of repeats gives us insight about which organisms are more closely related. I am not sure that my understanding goes much further than that though, so I should definitely take some time to read up on microsatellites.
ID056	I find haplotype and haplotype networks confusing because there is not a lot of information available for specific details of the concepts. The book briefly mentions it and the notes offered in class are not straight forward. I understand that haplotype networks are normally inherited together, I just don't understand why they are so important.
ID035	I feel like you cannot go very in depth about this subject other than surface idea. I had a hard time having to do this during this survey
ID065	This was most confusing for me because I have trouble thinking of all the possible combinations of parental chromosomes that could have resulted in the specific genetic recombination.
ID000	Most conceptually challenging for students in this class
ID090	Microsatellites are confusing to me as the actual process of how they are used in forensics was not discussed in lecture. I am confused about the differences between microsatellites and other molecular markers.
ID105	We only briefly covered this in class yesterday so I haven't even had time to read the chapter yet so I don't have a good understanding of this concept yet.
ID124	I do not remember discussing this in class and if we did there was not enough time spent on the topic for clear understanding
ID081	It's hard for me to understand the cis and trans configuartions and what they mean in relation to genetics. I still don't fully understand the differences between the two configurations.
ID088	This is most challenging.
ID109	I don't remember going over this in class, so it was really hard to come up with something to say. I am definitely going to have to teach this concept to myself.
ID104	I feel that this topic wasn't covered well enough to explain the importance of why we need to know the configuration and order of alleles.
ID014	I do not understand exactly what this entails exactly. I really got this confused with the gene linkages and I do not clearly understand if this is actually a three cross over.
ID057	This is the hardest topic for me to understand because it is new  material and I don't really understand the haplotype network. I will try to watch youtube videos and use helpful sources to help me develop a greater understanding in regards to this topic. I will also read the book and take notes.
ID092	The book doesnt do a very good job explaining it
ID144	This was hard for me to wrap my head around the first time i saw it. Using the forked-line method helps a lot.
ID129	I am very unclear about what the difference between a haplotype and a haplotype network are. Other than the fact that a haplotype is a sequence of genes that an offspring inherits, I do not know what their larger significance is.
ID079	I understand the chart with the example in the notes, but I do not think I could chart the results on my own or correctly interpret the information yet.
ID085	This was very challenging because Ms. Hughes did not explain this topic very much in class, and the powerpoin slides are mostly devoid of information about this befuddling topic. Variable number tandem repeats??
ID055	I do not recall talking about this in class. Therefore, the information I discovered on this topic was strictly from the book.
ID095	The data must be observed and fully comprehended to know if the haplotypes of an individual are going to be cis or trans.  This interpretation of the data takes much practice to become competent to understand cis/trans.
ID103	I feel like this is the concept I am least able to explain to another person. I understand what happens but not how the process unfolds.
ID064	The confusing thing about this was not realizing at first why the parental genotype is most common, then single c/o, then double. Once I remembered that, it was easier to understand, but at first there were too many numbers and it didn't make sense to me how to go from looking at a long list of numbers and just picking out which numbers went with with event (c/o, parents, etc.)
ID075	I found this very challenging to understand because the book did not offer much clarity and I feel it was not covered much in lecture.
ID049	It is difficult to understand this because this does not necessarily mean that these genes are dominant and recessive.
ID126	I chose this because I honestly do not really understand what a haplotype network is.
ID069	I found this topic the most difficult to understand because I thought the book was not very clear and concise in its explanation of the topic. Further exploration and the lecture helped clear up the process of determining allele order and configuration in a heterozygous parent.
ID077	I have experienced challenges learning microsatellies and variation in populations because there is only little about it on the slides from class and when I looked it up in the textbook it was only touched on in two paragraphs in separate chapters. I'm confused on how they can serve as useful molecular markers for genome analysis.
ID063	This relates back to complementation analysis and is tricky to understand.  I'm confused on how you can cross 2 individuals and then magically know if the mutations are cis or trans.  This is a topic I need to work on.
ID061	I am confused about to what extent alleles of a heterozygous parent are impacted by their configuration. I am confused about whether or not this still plays a role if the alleles assort independently.
ID097	just need more time studying about this learning target to understand its importance in genetics.
ID013	I found this topic challenging because there are many factors to consider when solving problems. I have problems understanding how to find the order of three genes on a chromosome. I do not know what numbers to use when trying to find the order of genes or how to find the parental phenotypes. These problems have been very frustrating for me.
ID007	Linkage analysis was new to me, and I found we went a little faster in lecture than I could keep up.  Once the answer is given I understand it completely, but I find it takes me too long to figure them out on my own.
ID145	I don't really understand how these are used to trace ancestry or parents.  I do not understand how these are passed from one generation to the next, or how these are found.
ID091	Three-point linkage crosses were difficult to understand at first.  I found it difficult to understand the mechanism of recombination and how it would affect the order of gene.  Working in discussion helped me as well.
ID022	we know that cis and trans configuration of the alleles can determine the phenotype of the progeny but would it matter if there is cross over occurring, since if there is cross over then the genes can be reshuffled in a way that would produce unexpected results or not?
ID045	I think the three-point linkage crosses are the most challenging to understand because it's hard for me to imagine where these certain genes are on the chromosome and why they are more likely to recombine if they are further apart opposed to close together.
ID068	I had trouble understanding what exactly is a haplotype and how the networks show similarities in DNA sequences of individuals.
ID031	It was just very hard to follow what point moved where and im not exactly sure how it works.
ID040	I had difficulty understanding how to determine what the configuration of the alleles is and I also had a hard time understanding why the configuration must known. After reading the book and looking at the notes again, it is beginning to make more sense but I still have a hard time understanding how to determine the configuration.
ID008	What exactly determines if the male or female offspring gets the dominant heterozygous trait? Is this solely based on random assortment or recombination.
ID141	This is the toughest of the 4 for me to understand.  I have read the book and been to all of the lectures, but there is simply not a good explanation in either the powerpoint, as a matter of fact it is not even mentioned in the powerpoint, neither is there a good explanation in the book.  I will get a tutor since there is no information pertaining this question in either the book or the powerpoint
ID111	I'm still pretty confused about this term. I'm going to have to look up videos of different explanations and things like that so I can see what is actually done during a three point cross. I understand crossing over, but I don't understand how this is much different I guess.
ID118	Challenge you experienced in learning is that there are various DNA molecular markers that are easy to map chromosome but new technology as DNA sequencing which allows the whole genomic sequencing of the DNA easier that DNA molecular markers, so why not just use that.
ID115	I understand the use of microsatellites and their purpose, but the way in which they are inherited is still confusing to me as well as the relationship the topic holds with haplotypes as well as the differences between them. Also, the teacher did not take as much time in my opinion to explain it or was a little ambiguous about the facts related to it.
ID083	I found it slightly difficult to understand this concept. I had to read that section in the book multiple times before I was able to fully grab the concept
ID023	I believe that I found the concept of microsattelites difficult to understand because the section concerning the topic was so short and simple as well as the powerpoints. I think that the concept may just not be as relevant compared to the rest of the chapter; however, I believe that I may be missing essential information that I am over simplifying.
ID082	I think that haplotype networks can be difficult to understand, because like many previous weeks, it is usually the most open-ended concepts that I get stuck with. I understand the basics of this concept, but feel unsure that I know the extent of the implications of haplotype networks and their mode of functioning in revealing information about populations.
ID107	While I understand the basics of a three-point linkage cross, I it is hard for me to apply this knowledge in practice. I often get easily mixed up or second guess myself when performing a 3 point linkage question where we must use the information given to map the three genes.
ID132	I don't feel that we have talked about this subject a lot or if we have then I do not understand it.I know crossing over can occur during these crosses but I do not know what we need to really take away from it.
ID030	This was initially the most challenging concept in this chapter for me to grasp. However, I have since gain a much better understanding of it.
ID093	I am unsure why it is necessary to know the configuration of alleles on two sister chromatids. The configuration can be deduced via a testcross and therefore is not necessary to know before hand. The order can be derived using a test cross as well. From this question it seems that we are required to know the configuration and order of alleles BEFORE a test cross which seems arbitrary.
ID026	I did not understand how haplotype networks could reveal information about populations and not just individuals. How do we know that it applies to the whole species and not just one individual? What do the networks show us?
ID028	I think this subject is the most challenging to me because the only think I really know about it is that it is used in gel electrophoresis.
ID060	There could be so many variations when we use this that it gets complicated to understand.
ID019	I do not understand how these configurations play into the linkage analysis completely.
ID147	I had a hard time wrapping my head around the fact that we use genetic markers that have been forced to replicate unnaturally. Also with how easy it appears for mutation to occur how is it that this is seen as a safe way to test for certain markers?
ID150	I do not understand what variations in repeated segments reveals about genetic linkage or how it can be applied to determine linkage.
ID002	I'm not sure what a haplotype is by this example. I need to go back and make sure I understand this
ID131	I did find this the most challenging because I feel we barely touched on it in class. I am unclear on the phenotypic ratio effects caused by cis and trans conformations
ID123	I understand the terms cis and trans, but I don't understand how they affect the linkage crosses.  I do not understand how they are crossed over depending upon their location on a gene.
ID078	I have no idea what it is and didn't realize that it realize it was something that i should know until taking this survey
ID117	I found it a little challenging to understand what haplotypes were because most of the definitions seemed slightly ambiguous when read at face value. But after I read more into the chapter and had a clearer understanding of recombination, it became clearer.
ID149	As I said, I missed the class where we talked about this topic.
ID120	This part hard to understand because even if the genes are on the same chromosome, they could be so far apart that they assort independently.
ID058	I feel that this concept and the concept of gene mapping as a whole was the most difficult concept. I had to read chapter 5 multiple times as well as discuss the topic with my roommate who previously had the class in order to understand it. I think once one gets it, it isn't very difficult, but initially understanding it is tough.
ID051	I can read and see what the literal definition of a micro satellite is and read the slide, but im having trouble picturing in my head how this process works. I understand it creates variation i just cant put together how the micro satellites help it with variation.
ID076	What is mechanism explaining this and what is the significance and what are topics that can be related to this information
ID020	I found Haplotype networks most challenging to understand, because I don't think we really went over it in class. How does the Haplotype network exactly show the genetic connections between the individuals in the same group?
ID034	i have hard time to understand the variable number tandem repeats. there is not lot information in the book, i have to dig out in internet but it's wide search
ID074	my main challenge was just understanding the mechanisms behind it.
ID114	There are a few issues I have with understanding microsatellites. First, does every tandem repeat count as a microsatellite? And if not, then how are we able to distinguish between a microsatellite and a non-microsatellite? Also, why is there so much variation between populations and organisms, especially if most of it is left to chance?
ID146	This is simply a topic and problem style I will have to become more comfortable with analyzing and working through as well as applying answers to situations presented in short answer or word problems as the numbers represent which genotype and location on the gene.
ID053	I've had trouble understanding this concept with regards to reading diagrams of haplotype networks and understanding the difference between haplotype networks and microsatellites.
ID016	I find the explanations from lecture to be quite confusing. Also, the details in the book are not even in chapter 25. I find the emphasis on this topic to be too much considering the length the book covers about it.
ID133	This was a confusing concept to me at first because the idea almost seemed backwards.
ID100	I'm still working on fully understanding the three-point linkage cross. I understand why they are important and what they can be used for, but how the recombination frequencies are determined still causes me some confusion.
ID127	I have trouble understanding this mainly because I have not read chapter 25. I know that once I read chapter 25, I will understand this concept more. I understand the basic idea of it, but I will have to look more into it before I feel confident about the concept.
ID151	Initially, the three point linkage cross seemed convoluted to me since we had to incorporate many  concepts such as the cis/trans configuration of the parent with a test cross and use that information to determine the order of  the alleles. However, after I worled through a few problems in class I was able to grasp how many of these concepts integrated and the reason as to why double crossovers were the least common in a population.
ID004	This is the most challenging because i do not get its significance.
ID011	I think understanding what a microsatellite was confused me for a while. I now know what one is and how they are used to locate genes, but I still do not understand the full significane of variation in microsatellites between populations.  I assume that it would complicate mapping of genes on the chromosomes in the different populations but I simply do not know for sure.
ID113	I understand that microsatellites are a class of genetic polymorphism which are commonly used for mapping, linkage analysis, but I do not know when it would occur and how to detect it.
ID021	I think this concept was over-complicated in lecture. I understood it easily once I read the book and looked at their examples. I think the topic could have been introduced in a simpler method. The abstract idea of location and mapping could have been made more concrete or with an easier to understand example than that of the genes of the fruit fly.
ID096	I am the most confused about this concept. I understand the definition of cis and trans configuration, but need clarification on the respect to microsatelites.
ID044	At first, I did not know the definition of haplotype. The slides do not do a good job of defining this.  They had the definition of a haplotype network but I did not know what this meant because i did not know the definition of haplotype.  I had also never heard this term before, which made it difficult to follow along and understand.
ID080	It's confusing to know how to accurately judge a linkage map when the parents are in trans configuration. It is confusing and is easy to make mistakes when trying to map the gene location. Cis is a lot more straight forward.
ID036	I found three point linkage hard to understand because it was new material that I have never been exposed before. I have a difficult time understanding the gametes that where produce, and the sequence of the parental strand
ID102	It was only hard for me to understand because looking at the lecture notes there was not anything specifically geared towards cis and trans. I do not event think the words are mentioned in the powerpoint.
ID073	It is still difficult for me to picture in my head the crossover between two parents and inferring whether genes are in cis or trans position given the offsrping.
ID050	It was not explained well by the instructor. I felt as if we did not go over in depth and have no idea why it is relevant.
ID128	To me this one was the most difficult because I understand what information is provided by haplotype networks, but I'm confused how that information is gathered from them.
ID059	I rated myself lower on knowing whether the alleles of a parent is heterozygous in linkage analysis. I  was confused about the heterozygous parent having either two dominant alleles on one chromosome and two recessive alleles on the homologous chromosome because I thought that either way, the dominant alleles will determine the phenotype. So if they were both on one chromosome how could it ever negatively effect the offspring?
ID047	I know thissis a good genetic marker , but I want to know what differentiates it from snps and rflps
ID086	This concept can be confusing because the crosses and linkages can be hard to determine from the bottom up.
ID084	I understand what a haplotype is and how a haplotype network can reveal information about populations, but I do not necessarily understand how to make a haplotype network from a list of haplotypes. If I saw one I could analyze it though.
ID054	I know that microsatellites are repeating segments of DNA. However, it was never very clear to me how they effected the variation between and within populations.
ID024	I do not understand how this works or why it works. I know it is a dihybrid cross, but I do not know how they are different fro other crosses. It was not explained well at all and we barely touched on it.
ID140	Vague, I missed class when we talked about this.
ID130	This was only very briefly gone over in lecture.  The concept itself makes sense, but determining the actual orientation of genes is over my head.
ID072	I felt like the variation within the populations of microsatellites was a little difficult to understand. Just a lot to take in at one time.
ID087	The three point linkage cross can sometimes be hard to understand. When data is just at you it can be overwhelming. If I take the time to look at each individual piece and draw out the possibilities offspring along with which are recombined, then the problem becomes easier to understand.
ID001	Sample
ID000	Probably they will find the binomial expansion to be the most difficult conceptually
ID039	Even though, I rated this concept high, I was a bit confused about it when I was first introduced to it, but now i understand it just fine. I was confused at first because I didn't understand which variables of the formula corresponded with what. For example I didn't understand that the 2pq corresponded to heterozygous alleles wnd so on. I also at first was confused on which formula to use in which situation.
ID105	I don't feel as though it was covered well enough in class, and I don't understand if the concept is as simple as it seems or if there is more to it that I still don't understand.
ID014	I do not understand the Haplotype networks. I do not understand how there are different haplotypes for mitochondria and how they can be traced generations back. I also really do not understand how to read the network and interpret them.
ID125	Im incredibly bad at applying math
ID069	I felt that this wasn't elaborated upon in class, and that it wasn't adequately covered in the textbook. I still do not have a confident understanding of haplotypes themselves, and I wish I could understand the applications of haplotype networks better.
ID089	We have been taught hardly anything about haplotype networks. I hope they are not as important as these LSAs are making them seem by their inclusion in the last two LSAs.
ID079	I find navigating a haplotype network most challenging out of this week's concepts.  I understand the reasoning and information that can be obtained from haplotype networks, but I cannot interpret a network on my own.
ID027	I do not believe this was covered very well in class, and there is not much information on it in the book. It is not a difficult topic to understand, but I feel that there will be questions and applications on the exam that I will not be prepared for.
ID098	I honestly feel like all of these topics are not very challenging to understand. The topic of "gene pools" is very vague, however, so I am sure that there are specific aspects of gene pools that I would have trouble understanding. But the basic concept itself, which is all that is presented here, is not difficult to understand at all.
ID133	In lecture I did not understand why this was an important equation if most populations in the real world do not meet these conditions.  If this is made more clear in class, I think the equation will make sense.
ID068	I think it is most challenging to understand how you can trace back DNA sequences without there being many differences/mutations over long periods of time.
ID050	I just do not understand how it is pertaining to genetics in a significant way. I also feel as if it was not covered deeply enough in class for me to understand its depth and importance.
ID015	Haplotypes are the hardest to rap my head around because they can be so easy but this is a definition you can not simply memorize but have to comprehend.
ID036	The challenge experienced with this is conceptually hardy-Weinberg's theory can never really be applied within a actually population. Mutation and natural selection occurs all of the time. There are so many factors that can affect the genes under consideration, so why is it that in genetics the hardy-weinberg theory is still applied.
ID070	I tried to search and find information about this topic but i do not understand what it is saying with the binomial expansion and frequencies, as in where is the correlation.
ID116	I have found this to be the most challenging to understand.
ID013	I still find this concept to be challenging because I do not quite understand how these haplotypes, or pieces of a chromosome that are DNA markers, can create a web of connections. I do understand that SNPs are the DNA markers used but I do not understand how the differences in these SNPs show how close an individual is related to another.
ID038	Just because binomial expansion is a concept in math, I had trouble understanding how to use it during calculations.
ID137	These are mapped in terms of lineage and similarity across species, but the diagram with pie charts are new and confusing to me. I understand the concept of haplotype networks and how they act as markers and are used for mapping, but the map itself is different from what I'm used to seeing, such as phylogeny trees.
ID094	Haplotype networks are probably the hardest to understand because we were not given many examples of this that I can recall.
ID056	Haplotypes were involved on the previous LSA and I am still having a hard time understanding their significance. I get that they are genes normally inherited together and that you can track them but other than that I just don't see why they are stressed so much. It is just a very vague topic and I feel like it is an important idea but it's hard to elaborate on it.
ID096	I am still unsure on the specifics concerning haplotype networks. While I understand the basic idea of haplotypes and haplotype networks, I don't think I would be able to solve complex problems concerning it.
ID028	Evolution is a challenging subject to grasp so that is why I think I'm having trouble learning the methods in which evolution occurs.
ID131	I know that a gene pool are all of the genes possible to be passed on. I am unclear on how this gene pool can be conceptualized as in how the selection takes place in meiosis.
ID007	This topic as a whole was not difficult, but I found the explanation of how to apply it to X-linked genes in males was a little too brief in class.  It makes intuitive sense but it was the hardest idea to apply this week.
ID026	I am still slightly confused about how genes have a better statistical relationship with certain genes and not with others. I could use some clarification on why some genes are more often associated with others.
ID097	Just further explanation and application with either a student or a teacher.
ID022	Haplotype networks because she only talked about for only 2 slides. i couldn't find much of the relevance of how would it related to the future generation if the set of genes that are passed together would be mutated, in that case what would be the outcome. Moreover, what would be its effect in real life was another thing i missed or didn't understood.
ID095	I've normally thought that all genes would be a representation of some sort of selection, so understanding why Hardy Equilibrium was an important concept took some thought.
ID061	I am confused about the significance of haplotype networks. I know that they can be used to examine how related individuals of a population are because they are sections of linked genes but I am confused as to how much can be concluded based off just one haplotype network. There are many more nucleotide bases in a individual's genome than just a haplotype, so is the entire genome actually considered?
ID063	I need to understand more the function of the SNPs. I think that with those understandings I will better be equipped with this topic.
ID101	The frequency of alleles and genotypes using binomial expansion was not explained for orders greater then the second power. It seems difficult to determine any more traits then two genes, and the recessive carriers.
ID049	It was hard to understand the concept of using 2pq to find the frequency of heterozygous genotypes
ID020	I thought that haplotype networks are still the most challenging because I'm not sure on how exactly they relate the population's genotypes, I know that they do, but not exactly.
ID082	While I understand the definition of a gene pool, and it makes sense that all the possible alleles of a population are counted as this gene pool, I don't really understand how this concept could be pushed farther than just the definition. I guess maybe the mixing of two gene pools would create a novel situation, but I still feel like it would just then be a bigger gene pool, going back to the definition.
ID081	I understand that in a haplotype genetic information from one parent is passed to the child, however I am lost on what a haplotype network is. I understand that in networks there is a flow of information but I am confused on how to put the two definitions together.
ID115	I think I need to better understand single nucleotide polymorphisms, their form of inheritance, their presence and effects in DNA as well as how they can be identified. I also need help understanding microsatellites.
ID085	I am confused on how to interpret these challenging network diagrams. The examples in class were vague and hard to follow. It does not help that the slides with definitions of the parts of the diagrams was completely skipped. The example network was only briefly discussed, meaning that I have to teach myself this vital topic instead of hoping my teacher explains it in the designated class time. To compare variance between populations, do we change the stick length?
ID040	I did not understand what haplotype networks were at first and trying to figure out what they were was confusing. Using the lecture notes was helpful because the examples that were used were useful in clarifying how haplotype networks work and how they can be used.
ID024	I understand haplotype networks more, but I still do not completely understand them.
ID076	need further distinguishing between haplotype and haplosufficient, etc.
ID135	I am very bad at math. I am confused as to how using p^2+2pq+q^2 and p+q=1 helps you find 2pq. Once I have 2pq do I divide it by 2? I have read over it in the book several times and I still just do not understand it.
ID008	Dolphins
ID126	I do not understand this connection and this class does not describe anything. We cover the basic of the haplotype but not how they are in an network.
ID134	There is little information on it in the chapters we are studying and our study of it in lecture was brief
ID043	I just need to get a better understanding
ID052	I do not understand the mechanism of how haplotype are expressed and are influencing one another.
ID065	The hardest part about understanding this was why the equation is the way it is. I have the equation and its variables memorized, but I have no idea why the equation is that way. I do not know why there are factorials involved, and I have no idea why exponents are involved. I can only work the problems but I have no idea what's going on when I work them.
ID023	I did not find this topic hard to understand, I just do not know exactly when we discussed this topic in Chapter 25. I do not know where it was implicated and why. I will need to revisit the chapter and try to find topic in which haplotypes were included. I will also refer back to the instructors powerpoints as well.
ID090	I understand the majority of this concept, but am still slightly confused to how our genetics class will be utilizing haplotype networks. Will we be expected to interpret them or draw them ourselves? I would like additional practice in order to increase my confidence in this topic.
ID118	I was confused on what repeats are used to determine the individual relatedness, is it SNPs (single nucleotide polymorphism) or VNTRS (variable number of tandem repeats or micro satellite) or RFLPS(restriction fragment length polymorphism) used as haplotype network.
ID075	I found haplotype networks to be a difficult subject. I tried to read the book but it just confused me and there were only one slide in the powerpoint notes about it.
ID053	Gene pools seem like such an abstract concept.  There is not a physical pool of genes, instead the gene pool consists of all the genes in the individuals within the population. This concept is difficult to understand because of its abstraction.
ID149	We never really talked about this in detail in class.
ID109	I just don't understand how one equation can predict all of the alleles, genotypes, and phenotypes of offspring. I just kind of trust this this equation is valid, but I think I could better understand it if someone explained to me how the equation was derived or what makes it work. Why does this equation work all of the time when populations and genes are changing all the  time? I'm sure it works because geneticists have used this equation for a long time, but I still need more explanation of why it works.
ID150	I do not know how to apply the concept to an actual problem given haplotype sequence differences.
ID033	I think the most challenging aspect of understanding evolving populations not involved submitting to the Hardy Weinberg standards is understanding whats causing the evolution change that's accounting for the variable in Hardy Weinberg equilibrium.
ID121	I don't recall we went over this in class
ID092	I find difficulty in learning tis topic because I feel it is closely related to haplotype networks and for some reason I am getting them confused.
ID123	I am unsure of what a haplotype network looks like.  I do not understand the mechanism in which the sequences of bases in the genome are mapped and correlated with each individual in a population.  The most challenging thing about the haplotype network is visualizing one.
ID051	I read over the slides and could not understand that material or what really separates a hardy weinberg population and one that is not one. It is just very confusing and i can not crack it just yet.
ID103	This was the most challenging because I don't know how the exact comparison mechanism works. I have tried to look up more additional information on the internet but have only become more confused.
ID031	It just is not clear when i am reading the slides to me. It does not make sense for them to be connected by genotypes.
ID093	I do not understand how a population can evolve without natural selection or gene flow/drift.
ID048	I failed to understand the specificity of where the haplotypes are determined. What is looked at when comparing two different haplotypes.
ID100	This topic has been the most challenging for me to understand because math problems always tend to cause me trouble. Manipulating numbers has never been something I'm good at so I it is always something I have to spend extra time on.
ID129	I understand what gene pools are but I am confused on how knowing all of the alleles in a certain population is helpful to geneticists.
ID141	I know less about haplotype networks than the other choices.  Mainly because we barely talked about them in class, and there is nothing about haplotype networks in the book.
ID002	I think this was the most challenging to learn, in that I had no idea prior to the lecture what a haplotype was. I had to read the textbook to grasp a better understand, since we were presented very little in class. Once I learned what a haplotype was, understanding how it is all connected was the next step.
ID143	I believe that, in the beginning, the process of binomial expansion was the most challenging process to understand by far.  I didn't understand how to obtain the probabilities of each event and plug them into the appropriate equation.
ID120	This is the most challenging for me because I thought these genes are inherited together, but it seems like its just like a linked gene on a chromosome. I am not sure whether that is correct.
ID083	I'm finding the haplotype networks most difficult to figure out. i understand that concept behind them and what haplotypes are but I'm not sure whether or not we actually need to understand how to read the haplotype network. Other that the one slide in the ppt, I'm not able to find any good examples in the book on this topic.
ID088	I find this the most challenging because it is hard to understand how all the haploid genotypes are connected within the haplotype network.
ID119	It is not that haplotype networks are difficult to understand, I am just not sure that I could apply my knowledge of this term on a test or essay. I know the definition of haplotype networks and understand that it is the relationship among haplotypes, but I do not see the big picture behind the definition and how it applies to other areas of genetics. This is the challenging part.
ID108	I don't understand what numerical phrase to use in different binomial expressions like (p+q)^6 to determine different alleles, genotypes, and phenotypes.
ID035	I was a bit confused on halpotype networks, the book doesnt go through the subject very much and i had a hard  time understand this concept in depth. I rate myself lower in this subject than the others because it was difficult for me to understand through the lecture and teaching.
ID006	This is the first i have seen this concept, but as I have researched it because of having done this survey, I have a better understanding and grasp on the concept.
ID060	The binomial expansion has been the most difficult because I usually tend to mess up on my numbers.
ID151	I know that the binomial expansion only requires the knowledge of Pascal's triangle and simple probability to solve certain problems, but even though I do know those two mathematical concepts, I sometimes have trouble trying to solve problems that require the binomial expansion.
ID110	haplotype network: I understand phenotypic trees and how species are networked together and their relations, but I do not really understand what a haplotype is exactly, and how is it determined exactly.
ID091	I was confused at first about the sex-linked application of the equation. It took time to understand the p + q = 1 for the males since they only have one x chromosome.  Reading the book cleared this confusion up for me.
ID078	I understand the definition of haplotype network, but I don't know what it means.
ID055	This subject was the hardest for me to talk about because there was not much information on it within the slides. I remember discussing it somewhat in class but it was difficult for me to fully understand its meaning and use within genetics.
ID072	the haplotypes were a little more difficult than i anticipated they would be, i think the concept is just a little hard to grasp.
ID059	I rated binomial expansion the lowest because I have a basic understanding, but my definition of it may lack important information. For example I know that it is used to calculate the frequencies of alleles, genes, etc, but I also thought that it was used to tell how many out of "X" amount of children will be boys, girls, have this disease or that disease. Maybe the terminology is what is confusing me on the overall concept of binomial expansion.
ID058	I understand what a haplotype is and what a haplotype network is used for, but I am confused on how one would go about drawing a haplotype network. I've looked at examples in class and in the book and things didn't always add up for me.
ID080	The principles behind the topic are simple but I don't understand what all effects it and the detail that goes into it.
ID042	I found this the most difficult to understand because I had a hard time finding it in the book. I was looking for it in the book because the text normally has good examples that help me understand.
ID130	Binomial expansion is not one of the methods that we covered very much in class.  The time in class was spent mostly covering hardy weinberg.
ID009	You just have to take a step back when dealing with haplotype networks. They are very similar to another topic we have discussed.
ID145	I understand what haplotype networks can do, but I do not understand what a haplotype is exactly. When I look at the notes I am confused by the last slide on page 7.  I feel like the book does not have much information to help explain it either.
ID047	I understand the definition for the most part, but I do not see the point of the existence in the Hardy Weinberg law. It seems unrealistic to me and I do not see how this really helps understand evolution and diversity.
ID011	I do not fully understand how to solve problems that relate to this.  I find it difficult to find other allele frequencies by using only one or multiple ones.  I simply do not understand the math all of the time.
ID113	I understand you can get the predicted ratios for the frequency of alleles, genotypes, and phenotypes from binomial expansion, however, I confused on why we should know anymore after that, besides using it a reference to see how much deviation occurs.
ID077	I am a little confused on Hardy Weinberg equilibrium because it seems like most populations do not meet the standards of it. When can we actually apply it?
ID102	The one that is the most challenging to me is the 3rd concept, H-W equilibrium and if it is evolving the population or not. I understand the H-w theory, but not the populations evolving outside of it.
ID144	It is confusing to think about how not every member of a population contributes to the equilibrium
ID111	I don't think that gene pools are necessarily very difficult, but it is a pretty broad term so I have a hard time understanding the specifics. I get the general idea of the term, but I'm not sure how to solve problems and answer questions about it.
ID128	For me, haplotype networks have  been the most difficult to understand. I understand that they can be used to show relationships between species but I'm not sure how the networks actually work. I had trouble finding information on them in the book.
ID034	hardy weinberg model predict individuals of all genotypes have equal rates of survival and equal reproductive success. no new alleles are created or converted from one allele into another my mutation. individual do not migrate into or out of the population. the population is infinite large, which in practical term means that the population is large enough that sampling errors and other random effects are negligible. individuals in the population mate randomly.
ID146	This is the most new and unfamiliar of the concepts and is the most complicated of the topics. The good thing is that it is more concept-related than number so there probably won't be as many problems to work regarding haplotypes.
ID138	I am not sure what I found challenging about learning this. I think its because we really haven't explored the impacts of haplotypes and so I have not had to really think very hard about it. All I have needed to know what that they are inherited together and are close together on a chromosome. If we have learned about the implications of this maybe they were not tied together well enough for me to realize they are related.
ID029	This concept was hard to learn because some of the concepts like genetic drift were hard for me to visualize.
ID064	This is the concept I was least familiar with, and at first I did not understand the slide with the picture of a haplotype network and was confused about what the circles meant, but then it was explained. I feel I would still have to think though if I was asked to draw a haplotype network, but I can now read one that is presented to me.
ID107	I understand what gene pools are but how to apply this concept is still hazy to me.
ID132	I don't necessarily then that haplotype networks are hard to understand I just do not remember them being important during lecture. I know it's important of what gets inherited upon generations but I need to further my knowledge on this subject and read more about it.
ID084	I am still confused on how to map networks.
ID073	I dont understand how to compare the haplotypes in a population and I dont understand how they are coming from one parent.  I dont understand how only one set of an allele is coming from only one parent.  I dont understand th e significance of knowing this information. I dont  understand how to calculate this information.
ID140	I'm still not 100% sure I understand what they're all about - how they interact, why that matters?
ID035	I had a hard time understand and wrapping my head around this process of how the chi square test can be used with the HW predictions. I understand  of these processes alone and separate but not when i must need to combine them together
ID044	I would consider this topic the most challenging because there are many new terms and definitions to learn and understand. It is also difficult to keep with these terms and follow the mechanism for transfer of genes.
ID150	I do not know the difference between generalized and specialized, but that is because I have not yet covered this subject yet.
ID013	I find this concept to be challenging because there are different strains of the F+ plasmid, such as the Hfr strain and the F prime strain. I am confused about the different mechanisms as to how these different strains integrate their DNA into the F- recipient bacterial cell.
ID000	My guess is that they will find this one most challenging
ID081	I find it the most hard to determine the frequency of alleles and genotypes of sex linked genes because sex linked genes, for males, only occur on one chromosome. While in females,it occurs on two chromosomes.
ID098	I do not fully understand the difference between generalized and specialized transduction. This is something I will have to look into.
ID045	Transduction is the hardest one for me to grasp my head around because it involves whole chromosomes, and certain genetic exchange. I don't understand how viruses have to mediate this process, and why bacterial are the only organisms that can undergo transduction.
ID058	I feel of all the topics this one is the most confusing because many steps happen once the DNA enters the bacteria. I sometimes get the different steps and whether or not the plasmid is integrated or not into the chromosomal DNA for transformation vs. transduction vs. conjugation confused.
ID109	I am still a bit confused on how you can definitely tell how you can map genes based on this way. From what we have covered in class, I don't get it. I went back and look at the notes and the only thing I can find is that you can tell if the F- remains F- then there is a higher rate of combination and the genes are farther apart. I would like a definite way to tell how far the genes are apart from each other.
ID077	I have found this topic the most challenging to understand because there are so many different symbols next to the F. For example, there is F-, F', F, etc. It is hard for me to keep up with what does what.
ID099	The differences between specialized and general are still unclear to me and this lack of clarity prevents me from fully grasping the concept
ID129	I don't really understand how mapping works. I understand the process works but i don't understand if it's just to prove that recombination occurred or if it proves something else.
ID014	I really do not understand the exact mechanism for how the genes are mapped.I understand the general idea of conjugation but when it comes to the details of the interaction between the HFR bacterium and the F-bacterium is where I begin to get confused.
ID027	The concepts of HFR and F were not explained in great detail during class. The topics were covered, but distinctions were not clearly drawn as to which type of the "F" plasmid does what kind of activity.
ID094	I do not think we got a great explaination of why this compatability matters so many people were left wondering.
ID085	I found this challenging to learn because I do not understand why autosomal genes cannot be used as well. After all, I thought that it was any recessive gene that is multiplied in occurences through inbreeding, not just sex-linked genes. I hope that looking at the lecture slides another time will help fix this problem, which is almost guaranteed to be on the test, simply because I do not understand it.
ID046	I do not fully understand the complexity of this, as I have never been exposed and it is a difficult concept.
ID069	I was confused as to why a virus would go through with generalized transduction, as the destruction of a cell doesn't strike me as being particularly beneficial to a virus. I felt that the topic of generalized vs. specialized transduction was not clearly covered in the textbook.
ID132	I'm not sure how to determine the frequency of alleles and genotypes with sex linked genes. I know it's somewhat difficult but I just do not know what she wants us to know about it. If we did an example of it in class, I don't remember but I'm going to work on it.
ID063	To me this technique is tricky. I'm not fully aware of the differences between F-, F', and F+. I'm also not sure how to determine the direction the chromosome is going. We brushed on that so quickly in lecture that it was confusing.
ID089	While I largely understand this process now, it was difficult to grasp at first. After studying diagrams and reading the text, I understand the difference between Hfr, F+, F- and F'. It takes an understanding of the different 'types' of F factor to be able to understand the method of mapping genes by interrupting conjugation between and Hfr and an F- bacteria.
ID131	I face challenges on specific points of specialized transduction. I found it challenging to fully grasp the differences, but I will attempt to further understand it by reading th chapter within the book because I have not done that yet.
ID033	I think the most challenging thing to understand is the chart for the chi square test along with the equation to determine whether the predictions are true or false.
ID095	I have always found the chi square test a bit confusing because there are a lot of factors to consider and even once the chi square number is obtained, I still don't really understand how it's referred to the table of data.  I have never had a course on statistics too.
ID057	I don't really understand why the frequency of the alleles and genotypes in sex linked traits how it can vary that much if males just depend on the mother and the females offspring depends on the father.
ID015	I don't really get what the difference is between F- and F+ and F' is.
ID103	Of the concepts this week I feel like this one was the toughest. I found it difficult to understand when a virus would enter the lytic vs the lysogenic phase, and how the process works at the molecular level.
ID052	I know that an HFR bacterium transfers its whole genome along with its plasmid to the F- bacterium. However, I do not exactly understand how conjugation between an HFR bacterium and an F- bacterium aids with mapping the genes on the bacterial chromosome.
ID079	I understand the terms presented in the concept, but chromosome mapping is an abstract concept.  I do not understand the significance of conjugation between a high frequency recombinant cell and a recipient cell with respects to mapping chromosomes.
ID026	I found this concept the most challenging to understand. I am unsure what the jobs of the HFR and F- bacteria are and how they influence how the genes are mapped.
ID021	I am unsure if I could solve a mapping problem on my own right now. The slides contained a lot of pictures, but few instructions or words to explain the process. How do you know where the map begins and what to do about an overlap between genes on different strains?
ID068	I have a hard time understanding the exact difference between generalized and specialized transduction.
ID101	The difference between the types of F prime, F negative, and F positive are all similar and explained vaguely all at once and require some thought and further search of explanation.
ID029	I have had a hard time with hardy Weinberg in general because some of the associated terms like genetic drift are hard for me to visualize, and I am a very visual learner.
ID022	the overall concept of chi square test is hard to grasp. The point of where they got all the values from which we are making assumptions that weather a given null hypothesis is correct or should be rejected is confusing. Moreover, the  chi square test also gives overall frequency and the frequency of any given alleles. if it does gives the frequency of alleles then i havent noticed it. Therefore, it is hard for me to understand how can a concept give me an accurate answer to weather population is changing or not.
ID082	While I feel as though the overall concept of process and implications of determining the frequency of alleles and genotypes with sex linked genes is relatively easy to grasp and understand, the most challenging aspect of this concept is applying it to problems. I dont think that I would be confident working a problem with actual numbers and data in reference to this concept.
ID083	I find this the most challenging. I have not yet read the book and did not fully understand when we were going over this in class. I feel as though I know nothing about this topic and I need to read the book as soon as possible for clarification.
ID115	I might need to review the material to understand how conjugation between Hfr and F- occurs and how the f factor plays a role in gene transfer and the effects that follow it.
ID007	Bacterial gene mapping I felt was the hardest subject to understand because setting up problems takes a good deal of abstract thought.  After doing the discussion homework and solving those problems, it made much more sense to me.
ID143	In my opinion, it is very difficult to understand the process of the conjugation between these types of cells because of the involvement with the F factor.  I do not understand why the F factor is beneficial for the conjugation of genetic material between these cells.
ID149	I feel like we never talked about this topic in lecture or discussion, and I haven't done the reading. The book is pretty unclear about a lot of topics as it is, so it's pretty confusing with more difficult topics.
ID060	This concepts is complicate and I still need to go over it in more detail.
ID053	I simply believe that I have not studied this specific concept enough, especially because I do not remember ever having studied this concept in other biology classes.  I find it difficult to remember the differences between these forms of transduction. I am also confused about how genes are transferred in the generalized transduction if the bacterium is lysed.
ID105	I only find this hard to understand because its been awhile since we covered it and I don't remember it extremely well. However, it wasn't particularly emphasized which is why I didn't make sure to retain it fully.
ID061	I was confused about mapping bacterial chromosomes by using transduction. I did understand that if two genes are transduced together it is likely that they are close together and can be compared to another set of two genes that has one gene that is also on the first set, but how could you be confident that the two sets of genes were not each transduced through two independent transductions?
ID090	This concept was the most difficult for me to understand as I am unsure how F- and HFR bacterium can be used in mapping. In understand the HFR is a specialized class of F+ and that when you cross: HFR x F-=F- but am unsure how this relates to mapping.
ID075	I found this very challenging because I am having a hard time keeping F+, F-, and HFr strains right. The powerpoint did not provide in depth information and the book explains in so much detail that it gets a little confusing.
ID064	The hardest part of understanding this is seeing why males have a different ratio. I know understand that it is because they only have one X chromosome, but it was not at first clear that they also reflect the allele frequency in the population. I think this is the hardest concept because it would take me a while to figure out a problem if I was given the frequency of allele occurence in females and had to find how often it occurred in males.
ID050	I don't know if my understanding of the topic is deep enough to explain or use in a problem. I don't know if we are just to understand what goes on in the X chromosome or something deeper.
ID119	This topic is really not too difficult to understand, I just have not familiarized myself with the concept in great detail yet. I have a general understand of the bacterium's and how bacterial genes are mapped, I am just not confident in my ability to explain this concept or to apply it on a test.
ID124	Like human gene mapping I find this confusing because of the large tables and multiple numbers associated with each variable. I am confused about how each of the numbers relates to one another and if it mirrors human mapping.
ID049	This is the most challenging to understand. I'm still unclear as to how this is a good measurement when there is no sure way that all of the genes will be integrated into the host cell
ID137	I think the concept is overwhelming just because it is the newest thing I've learned in genetics, but with some proper reading ans studying it won't seem as intimidating. The main confusing part is determining which alleles to use in mapping and the meaning behind the +/-.
ID070	Its hard to determine which gene to categorized under the different bacterium, and how to map it
ID056	I felt that this topic was the hardest to grasp because there is not a lot of detail about the differences in the text or in the notes. I understand the concept but I do not think there is too much to understand about it.
ID126	I feel this is the hardest to understand because of the F factor.
ID151	I understand the concept of mapping bacterial chromosomes well especially since I did such a problem in our discussion course. However, I am having trouble distinguishing between HFR bacterium and F' bacterium. I know that these two are simply specialized version of F+ bacterial cells, but I have trouble creating a fine line between the two classifications (the similarities and differences). I have read the book on these concepts as well and I am able to understand the basic knowledge of the two classifications, but I am unable to explain it in other words or understand the cells and their functions in depth.
ID040	The steps of transduction can be a little confusing to follow. I will have to look over the steps several times to make sure I am able to understand each piece and how it could contribute to the genetic diversity that is found in bacteria.
ID120	This is the most challenging to me because I do not exactly understand how the viruses attach to the bacteria.
ID118	I rated low in this one as I can use the chi square formula to come up with the value, I can also use the chi square table to get the P-value, but I get confused on where to reject the hypothesis or accept the null hypothesis. I am confused on what the difference or what to compare while deciding to compare the hypothesis with null hypothesis. Its also hard to come to specific conclusion on why chi square rejects the hypothesis as there can be many reason such as natural selection, mutation, sexual selection, genetic drift or gene flow.
ID107	While I understand the concept of bacterial gene mapping, I do not understand it well enough to apply it. I am not able to create a gene map on my own without help from my TA or other classmates.
ID097	I need to understand the similarities and differences of the two bacteriums.
ID024	I kind of understand what conjugation is, but I do not understand at all how the HFR, and the different Fs work in this process.
ID065	This gave me some trouble, specifically with the notation. It took me a while to figure out what F+ and F- means, and it took me even longer to be able to apply it to the concept of conjugation. I understand what HFR bacteria are, but their relationship with other bacterium, such as F- bacterium, is still pretty unclear to me.
ID023	I feel as if there were more practice clickers on this concept I would have understood it better. I got lost during lecture although I had the chapter read prior to lecture. I practiced the clickers after class and still got the question wrong on the quiz. I believe that I need more practice and to attend the help session.
ID113	I don't understand how, when determining frequency of alleles, the sex linked genes can affect it
ID100	This topic is really causing me a lot of trouble. I understand conjugation is the transfer of genetic material between bacteria cells via direct physical contact, but how this process can help map chromosomes confuses me still.
ID039	At first I was confused because in discussion there was a worksheet were my group had to map out the genes. The thing that confused me was that sometimes the certain genes from the hfr didn't transfer or at times the none of the genes transferred because of the media the hfr strain was plated on. I didn't really understand and still don't understand the purpose of plating a hfr strain on a media that kills the strain. I don't see how it would help map out genes.
ID144	p+q=1 gives you the frequency of the alleles for the WHOLE population. if it is ONE population we are talking about, we use the same frequency for the males, as well as the females. You will, of course, have two different frequencies of each genotype for male and female since it affects each differently
ID116	I feel that I do not have a clear understanding of this concept. I have found the sex-linked gene concept a bit hard to understand, and now that we are adding components to it, I feel a bit lost on the concept.
ID117	I understand the concept of mapping, HFR and F- bacteria. However the wording of the concept is highly confusing for me here. I don't understand how 'genes may be mapped TO chromosomes.' I understand how recombination can occur between DNA from an HFR bacterium with the F- bacterium and how the new choromosomes can then be mapped, but the use of 'to' confuses me greatly.I've
ID038	I did not understand how the two types of transduction can determine which lifecycle the bacteria will undergo. Are there any molecular mechanism or is it just based on environment or what.
ID017	I do not totally understand the topic of HFR bacterium and and F- bacterium due to my lack of understanding in the recently discussed topics both in class and in discussion. I do not see how the fertility factor connects with conjunction.
ID092	I found this to be the most difficult concept to understand because I haven't spent as much time trying to conceptually understand it that I should have.
ID031	I do not get how to follow how the two chromosomes are conjugated together.
ID146	This is the newest concept and mort unfamiliar, and problems related to it could pose an issue, but I think that I can work through a few and get the hang of steps of the interrupted mating technique and mapping, etc.
ID147	The rate of recombination occurring somehow can be used to determine distances. I did not really understand how the F-, F+, and HFR bacterium are proven to be what they are ad how their interaction seem to result in many new variations but they are still only referred to as the base F+, F-, and HFR.
ID127	I am not exactly sure where this is coming from. I know about the XX and XY chromosomes, and that we can use the Hardy Weinberg principle to determine allele frequencies, but I am confused on how to find the allele frequencies in sex linked genes.
ID055	The slides became a little confusing when talking about the differences and similarities of generalized and specialized transduction.
ID123	I found this to be the most challenging because I do not understand how the genes are mapped to the chomosomes.  I understand that the conjugation between an HFR and F- bacterium transfers a fragment of DNA from the HFR to the F- cell, but I do not understand the mapping of the chromosome.
ID002	I just need to know how these two correlate. I do not see the path as I was not shown, nor did I see anything about this in the notes or textbook. I've either missed something or am just not seeing the connection.
ID142	I believe this was the hardest topic to focus on and  understand because I already struggle with chi square analyses as is. I guess I was mostly confused if the chi square results are less than 5% what that means for the frequency of the alleles.
ID096	This is definitely the most difficult concept to grasp. I understand that conjugation between these two bacterium yields both HFR bacterium but I am still unsure on the specifics.
ID111	This concept is the most difficult for me because I have a hard time telling the difference between the two especially when trying to apply the term and do problems. I can remember the definitions of the two but I just can't seem to be able to tell the difference when actually looking at a problem. This was the lecture that we didn't go over in class and therefore I didn't get to see any examples on the board for this concept. Although we had a powerpoint with audio uploaded, I was still confused over this area.
ID108	I don't understand how the crossing over occurs and whether it will be F- or not.
ID028	This is a difficult subject because this is my first time learning about bacterial conjugation.
ID088	I find this topic difficult because it is not easy to understand all the different ways that HFR and F- can interact with each other.
ID072	I feel like this was just a confusing topic in the book. there is just some stuff that I didn't know needed to be assumed.
ID114	I understand both concepts of general transduction and specialized transduction, but I am a little confused about the process of why specialized transduction occurs. What causes there to be an error in the excision of a prophage from the chromosome and why is this so important to whether bacterial gene exchange will involve general or specialized transduction?
ID016	I feel like terminology is hurting me big time here. My foundation for this chapter is largely lacking, but I do feel like after understand the terminology, it should be an easy concept to tackle.
ID145	I understand what it means to be in Hardy Weinberg equilibrium, but I am not sure how to do the chi square test or how to look at  a chi square table and be able to tell if a population is in Hardy Weinberg equilibrium.
ID074	I just dont feel like there was any significant difference discussed in class between determining alleles frequencies  in autosomal vs sex linked genes
ID047	I get the process of bacterial conjugation, and how mapping is figured out through this, but I cannot figure out exactly how to map out genes.
ID009	Like I mentioned earlier the last two are the most difficult to me. I do not understand the difference between the two transductions nor the significance of conjugation between HFR and F-
ID003	It has been difficult for me to do a chi square test. The reason why is because it is difficult for me to know the correct calculations to understand how to use the chart on whether or not is supports the law or disapproves.
ID130	There has been very little talk over the mapping of genes.  We had to gain a small understnading of it in our discussion but it has gone uncovered outside of that.
ID004	I was particularly confused about the difference between these two and how that difference matters.
ID011	I primarily do not understand how the chi square test and Hardy Weinberg equilibrium are related. I cannot recall any problems that focused on this topic so I do not understand exactly how the two topics are correlated and how they can be used together.
ID048	I am still confused about the complete through details. I do not understand the whole concept of mapping.
ID078	I know what the chi square test is used for, but im not sure how to apply it.
ID006	It is been taking me awhile to understand the concept of HFR and F and what they stood for. But now I at least know what they mean
ID036	I find this the most difficult to understand because t is a new concept that I am not very familiar with.
ID086	There is very much information about this topic and it is confusing. It has so many steps and exceptions to know about.
ID141	This was the hardest for me to understand.  There are just so many different variations with so many different small facts concerning each different one.  F plus, F minus, F prime, and HFR.  They all blend together in my mind except for F plus and F minus!
ID080	I struggle with this because of the difference it has with other linked genes. I know mapping and linked genes well but I do not understand sex linked genes besides that they are found on sex chromosomes.
ID073	I do not understand specifically how the HfR bacterium and the F- bacterium play a role. I do not understand the transfer of genes between them and I do not understand how it is conjugation.  I do not understand that differences in time and how a genetic map can be made by this. I do not understand the steps in conjugation.
ID091	Learning the difference between HFR, F+, and F- was a bit confusing at first.  The discussion helped me understand the nuances between them.  Similarly, finding the number of wild type bacteria in lab helped solidify the process.
ID034	it is hard to determine the differences between F', F+, F-. they are almost in the same concept except F- they dont have F factor and will receive it from F+ and F'
ID128	I understand what chi square test are used for and how they are necessary to determine the inconsistencies between the measured data of a population and the predictions made based onHardy Weinberg principles. However, I'm not sure how to conduct a chi square test on my own and therefore could use some practice problems that would help give a better understanding as to how to conduct such analysis.
ID059	I rated this the lowest because I don't understand the rest of the benefits of the chi square. I am not sure if it is similar to the idea of a punnet square or if it actually determines the same factors as the punnet square. Either way, I believe my basic understanding of it will not be enough to elaborate on the topic, but it will be enough to explain a brief conceptual understanding if someone was to ask.
ID138	I am still a little unsure of the difference between HFR, F+ and F', I think it is challenging because I have not read over the material yet and I was confused after lecture, and then the activity we did in discussion only made me more confused. I would really like to know what separates these from each other instead of just learning the definitions of each other because the definitions are very similar.
ID042	I found this topic the most difficult to understand because I don't understand which amino acids switch and which dont.
ID071	It was more difficult for me to grasp this concept
ID064	I thought it was at first hard to understand the haploid and diploid numbers presented on the powerpoint slide with the two strains of plants combining, but after thinking and asking a question it made more sense to me that it is the haploid numbers combining, not the original plants' diploid numbers.
ID094	I don't understand very well why plants can tolerate this so well. To my knowledge this was never explained in class in full detail and I'm interested.
ID027	I find it difficult to remember and distinguish the different anueploidies from each other. The differences between these genotypes and the symptoms of their related syndromes seem to "run together" in my mind. This is not the fault of the professor.
ID046	I do not recall learning this in class
ID113	I understand that the X-chromosome can be inactivated, however, I don't understand how it can have little effect, but certain syndromes we've discussed talk about differences in height, facial features, etc., which are physical features of the individual
ID069	I'm not sure I fully understand why it would have "little effect on human phenotype." I was under the impression that a variety of disorders are caused by too many or too few X chromosomes. I may be confused by the wording of this statement- does "increases or decreases in the X chromosome" simply mean increases or decreases in its size, not number?
ID126	I just don't understand the main concept and how it does kill all mammals.
ID101	This question is too vague, and should further elaborate if the X chromosome is being added to or if an additional X chromosome is being added to the normal amount.
ID000	I suspect that they found autopolyploidy and allopolyploidy the most challenging but this section is not conceptually difficult
ID116	I have found this concept to be very hard to understand. It encompasses many different aspects of genetics, so I am having a difficult time wrapping my head around it.
ID109	I understand that plants can tolerate increases in single chromosomes and entire sets of chromosomes better than humans can, but I am still having trouble understanding why plants can tolerate aneuploidy better than humans. I think it's because humans are more complex, and each chromosome is critical in development even more so than in crop plants. I understand that aneuploidy causes crop plants to be infertile, but I am still unsure if there are any benefits to this except this causes them to be seedless. Are there any other benefits?
ID063	This is a tricky concept and I don't think the book does a good job explaining it. I don't get how a plant with 3 chromosomes can be more beneficial with a plant that has just 2 chromosomes. It seems like the 3 chromosomes would provide unnecessary competition for expression that may compromise the pant.
ID040	I have a hard time understanding why animals are so much more affected than plants when they lose or gain chromosomes.
ID026	I find this topic hard to understand when two plants are crossed that have a different number of chromosomes and produce offspring with another different number of chromosomes. I would like to learn more about this type of situation and the effects that can come from it.
ID065	I am mostly confused by this because I do not understand why animals usually can not be viable with multiple sets of chromosomes but plants can. I do not understand why triploidy can kill animals but only make slight phenotypic changes in plants. I tried looking for information about this in the book, but I did not find anything that really answered my questions. I know that this happens, and I know how this occurs, but I do not know why it can produce a viable offspring.
ID056	There is just a wide range of information that pertains to this statement. It was hard to pinpoint what exactly this is talking about. I understand the different effects of changing chromosome number. There are just so many different changes that can occur.
ID079	Differentiating between the result of anueploidy and euploidy is challenging. I understand the definitions of each term,but I definitely need to review how an increase in one chromosome and and increase in an entire of chromosomes lead to different outcomes.
ID089	I do not understand WHY plants are able to tolerate anueploidy better than mammals. I understand that triploidy results in malfunctioning meiosis, but i do not understand why they can tolerate it better.
ID043	I just do not understand how this works within the cell.
ID013	While I find this topic interesting, I am confused on some of the other distinctions between autopolyploidy and allopolyploidy. I find it challenging to understand how the entire sets of chromosomes doubling occurs and how it is written out.
ID033	It's just a little hard to understand why autosomal chromosomes mess up less than sex linked chromosomes.
ID014	I really do not understand how the extra x chromosomes are inactivated. I understand that the individuals are able to be mostly phenotypically normal because the extra x chromosomes are inactivate but I do not understand which genes are responsible for their inactivation.
ID150	This topic is harder for me to understand because it is so different from what happens in animals. I do not know how plants still function when animals have such a hard time surviving with aneuploidy.
ID068	I understand that this causes little affect but i do not fully understand why this chromosome doesn't show phenotypic affects like another chromosome might.
ID038	If we have multiple copies of autosomal chromosome, they are often harmful but multiple copies of X chromosome are not harmful. Why is that?
ID136	It is hard to understand this topic because plants are different than humans in terms of their chromosomes.
ID020	I'm confused on what the mechanism is that plants are able to be bigger or smaller or has less seeds or more seeds. What causes them to be diploid or triploid.
ID140	I'm not sure I understand why they can handle extra chromosome sets.
ID007	The most difficult part about this topic is memorizing all the specific examples of human autosomal anueploidy that does not simply result in lethality.  It is not difficult conceptually but there is a lot of information and much of it is not necessarily intuitive.
ID115	I understand how plants are capable of tolerating some issues with chromosome mutation more readily but have difficulty understanding how that is the case.
ID023	I found this topic difficult to understand simply because there are many different vocabulary terms when it comes to deletions and additions in plants(referring to the slides in class). I had difficulty understanding the effects of a single chromosome deletion and a set of chromosomes deletion. I feel as if the terms were confusing. I also had difficulty in discussion concerning the triploid banana and meiosis steps that are associated with it.
ID103	I considered this the hardest concept because it took the longest for me to gain some understanding off.  I had to see some examples of what was happening to feel like I knew what was going on.
ID105	I understand chromosomal expression from Barr bodies but I believe there is more to it than that. I believe more was discussed on this topic but I don't fully recall everything.
ID129	I am confused about how an increase in the X chromosome has little effect on human phenotype. Most humans without enough X chromosomes die or have very serious mental problems.
ID146	Simply because I have the least amount of context with this topic, and the application of chromosomal changes in plants this is the most complicated for me.
ID133	Because of the technical terms involved with this concept, I had a hard time learning it.
ID036	This was a little difficult to understand because there is a lot  factor  that contribute to Autosomal Anueploidy duch as chromosomal defects
ID022	I do understand that when plants self fertilize they increase the number of chromsomes and then due to some process they regain the diploid number of chromsomes and can function normally. However, when they increase the number of chromosome wouldnt there be any side effect like death or the plant or the fruit becoming poisonous like in humans. If there is increase or decrease in the chromosome there is chances of immediate death. wouldn't that be  the case in the plants as well. Or if there is increase in the certain chromosome for instance lets say chromsome 12 which codes specifically for having little bitter taste but due to having multiple 12 chromosomes with code for the same bitter proteins would the fruit get better or would it still have the same taste?
ID048	I failed to understand the detailed information this. Like how exactly was it beneficial and how it has historically evolved.
ID049	All of these concepts are relatively easy to understand. Organisms have a number of chromosomes they are supposed to have and variations of that cause changes in phenotype
ID124	I struggle to remember to half the diploid number of the parents to create the child plant. If not i continually get the wrong answers in the child diploid number.
ID057	I am confused on exactly why it is more lethal for mammals to have an increase or decrease in chromosomes than in plants. Why do plants live more often than not?
ID039	This was difficult for me to understand and still difficult to grasp. I understand why and how it occurs in humans, but what I don't understand is why it is rare in mammals. I wasn't discussed in class it doesn't occur often in animals and mammals, so I'm having a hard time grasping it. I initial thought it would be the same for humans and mammals/animals but apparently it's not.
ID024	I do not truly understand this concept. I understand that chromosome number is what causes abnormalities and diseases, but I am not exactly sure how it is different from all of the other things that were talked about on this survey. They all seem very similar.
ID031	This is just hard because of the certain scenarios that it could occur under.
ID093	I do not understand what is meant by "little effect" because clearly some effect on phenotype does occur. If a gene is or isn't expressed properly, and the result is as dramatic as a male developing breasts, then the effect has not been little.
ID058	This concept really arose in discussion when asked about where seedless plants came from and I didn't know that seedless plants are really seedless because they have a genetic mutation and are triploid. Also, it is interesting that they can be bred and return to being tetraploid and produce seeds.
ID082	While I understand this concept and can provide examples of situations that apply, as with many previous concepts, I find this concept the most difficult to understand because it is so broad. I dont think I would feel comfortable necessarily defining the boundaries of what material lie specifically in this category.
ID061	I was initially confused about autosomal aneuploidy and the difference between aneuploidy and euploidy. I did not understand the difference.
ID030	While I do understand this topic quite well, I need to review how else anueploidy occurs beside via non-disjunction.
ID131	The s]topic itself did not seem very difficult, but I am unclear on some of the finer points. I am unclear on how the extra X chromosomes are muted to where there is no great phenotypic difference with the varying numbers of X chromosomes.
ID053	Though I know that plants exhibit this trait, I don't understand why they are able to tolerate alterations better than animals. Also, I don't know the use of this phenomenon except to make crops seedless.
ID035	I was confused on the idea of expanding on this concept. I also was confused on the idea during lecture and how this idea relates to what we have been talking about in lecture.
ID050	I understand the concept behind Barr bodies and the X-inactivation, I was just simply confused as to why this could occur for the Y chromosome either.
ID143	I believe that this topic is not generally difficult to grasp, but it is challenging to understand which types of variations in autosomal chromosomes can cause differing genetic diseases.  The challenging aspect of this topic is the idea that there are thousands of different possibilities when it comes to autosomal aneuploidy, and researchers are making new discoveries on a daily basis.
ID090	It is unclear to me why plants can better tolerate extra chromosomes as well as entire chromosome sets. Do they gain the extra sets through nondisjunction as well or only through the fusion of gametes? Why are they better able to tolerate it than animals?
ID052	I do not understand how the genetic material of some plants may be altered to the point where they no longer produce mature seeds. I know that polyploidy is common in plants due to their ability to reproduce asexually, but I'm not clear on how they actually produce viable gametes.
ID091	I thought i understood how a variation in X chromosomes results in a variety of syndromes depending on the ration to Y chromosomes, and whether an X chromosome is added or removed.
ID044	This was a difficult topic because there is a lot of new definitions to learn and apply.  So the first hurdle is learning these definitions.  Then understanding how the polyploidy can occur and at which stages of meiosis the mutations occur was also challenging. It was also difficult to understand which hybrids are sterile and that you can regain fertility by crossing and regaining an even number of chromosomes.
ID081	The different scenarios that lead to varying numbers of chromosomes confuses me. I don't understand what causes them to occur. I also get confused on the different effects they each have on phenotypes of organisms.
ID003	I have to study this topic more.
ID107	I don't quite understand the mechanisms in plants that can produce viable offspring. I don't understand how they can tolerate imbalances in chromosome numbers.
ID118	This concept is really hard for me to understand as in mammals sometime autosomes plays a role and also x and y chromosome is sex determination. It is also hard to understand on how humans shows specific scenarios and how they become mosaic to the trait.
ID092	Though it is not especially challenging, I found myself spending the most time in the book on this topic.  I did so because there are so many variations and different syndromes that occur from the addition or deletion of X chromosomes.  Keeping track of these syndromes and their respective details is something I am going to have to spend some more time on.  However,  I do know that generally increases in X chromosome count are not especially harmful to the organism and most can survive to have relatively normal lives.
ID074	I dont think i am having trouble with any of these topics.
ID098	I do not understand what exactly makes plants more adept at tolerating increases in chromosomes. What is different between plants and animals that allows them to better handle, and sometimes even thrive, with trisomy and polysomy?
ID151	In general, any mutation or variance regardless of the fact if that variation was present in an autosome or a sex chromosome, is difficult to undertsand since there are multiple diseases and each disease leads to defined specific characteristics while others may hjave ambigious phenotypes. Autosomal anueploidies also fall into that category since I am trying to differentiate between the types of autosomal anueploidies and the phenotypic characteristics associated with the disorders. This section was also challenging since I still had some questions left after going through the textbook and my notes. Otherwise, this section was very intriguing, nonetheless ,although it was challenging.
ID145	I was not in class on this day and therefore have not gone over this information.  I know the bare minimum about this.
ID085	I do not completely understand this topic. I understand how autopolyploidy means that no meiosis can occur until each gene has another copy of itself. However, I do not understand why it is significant that plants tolerate that; perhaps because animals do not tolerate such increases.
ID123	I  understand the concept of autosomal anueploidy, which is the presence of an abnormal number of chromosomes.  The only part that I find challenging is the mechanism by which these abnormalities result from. I don't understand how an increase in chromosomes happens or how a whole chromosomal set is duplicated.
ID070	i will try to read more in depth with the topic and research and ask questions to the instructor
ID144	Increases and decreases in the X chromosome show phenotypic effects on humans. Turner's syndrome shows phenotypic effects of underdeveloped breasts and usually being short in stature. In Klinefelters Syndrome men are going to experience some female like phenotypic features.
ID055	I understand that barr bodies inactivate the extra X chromosomes. However, I do not remember discussing information about a decrees in X chromosomes as much.
ID097	It would help to understand this concept better if more the history was explained. The history allows the concept to have relevance and demonstrates our understanding of genetics over time.
ID127	Although I understand the alternating generations, I am still having a hard time understanding why this happens completely. I do not understand how alternating generations helps them become more tolerable to a change in chromosome number.
ID078	i dont understand how this mechanism of survival is viable for plant, but in animals, having the incorrect number of chromosomes results in infertility, if not death.
ID077	I found plants tolerating increases in chromosomes and chromosome sets hard to understand at first because I didn't understand the exact difference between autopolyploidy and allopolyploidy. The words look so similar I would get them mixed up.
ID017	I understand this topic the least because I lack the knowledge of all of the different types of abnormalities like, for example, Kleinfelter's. I do not fully understand the specific effects of the added increase or decrease of the X chromosome on phenotype.
ID034	i have a little confuse between little affect or greater on human phenotype. it makes two new phenotype on human, and it has huge different between Klinefelter syndrome and turner syndrome.
ID095	I'm still having trouble learning all the terminology of the types of DNA segregations in the gametes, e.g., aneuploidy, polyploidy, etc.
ID096	I understand this concept but I understand it only very basically. I am confused on how it can only have a very small effect on the human phenotype. Is it because it effects the genotype but it is not physically noticeable? I don't understand this at a deep enough level.
ID067	Individuals with more than one X chromosome maintain only one active X chromosome and inactivate all others in the form of Barr bodies. Thus, the extra copies of the X chromosome do not cause an imbalance in the dosage of functional genes, and people with 1, 2, 3, or 4 X chromosomes all have similar levels of gene expression for most X-linked genes.
ID011	I was confused on what differences there were between plants with normal chromosome sets and those with different ones.  I was also confused as to why plants seem to show no drastic negative effects from this and how the effects can actually be beneficial.  I also was confused as to how you can simply double a chromosome count to fix the phenotypic issues.
ID141	How can you know which barr bodies are going to leak?  Is there a way to tell?  I am not sure about this and cannot find any clarification in my notes or my book.
ID008	Confused on what exactly results in the negative feedback for humans but positive feedback for plants when increasing chromosomes.
ID016	Why can plants tolerate such genetic changes? It is unclear to me the molecular mechanisms behind this phenomenon. I suppose since a human zygote is constantly developing for 9 months, a delicate equilibrim must exist, whereas plants simply produce pollen+seeds rather than having to nurse the embryo.
ID080	The most challenging aspect of this is the numerous possibilities in chromosome change and how each different organism handles that change. It's a very broad topic but with some very specific results.
ID108	I do not understand why the autosomal aneuploidy is so much less common. Is it because it lethal or because of the nondisjunction in mitosis?
ID086	It is hard to understand this because despite having extra genetic material they can still produce fruit.
ID073	I am confused about inversions and how they can be distinguished between normal chomosomes when looking from the parent to the offspring.  I am unsure how you can look at the genotype of the offspring and choose out the two parents and decide which one had the inversion,  I am unsure how to decide when an inversion happened once or twice and what effect that would have on the offspring.
ID100	I really do not understand why plants are better able to survive this type of mutation. I don't believe that our genome is anymore complex than some plants in existence.
ID110	I don't completely understand how the increase or decrease of an X chromosome can have such  little effect on human phenotype. I think that because the lethality of genotypes that have a serious effect on human phenotype would clearly be selected against and those that cause little effect remain prominent because it doesn't effect the ability of the organism to survive or reproduce
ID111	I understand that we have altered plants to have a more desirable outcome for what we are looking for (again seedless watermelons and things like that) but I don't understand how they happen on their own or which ones are more likely to survive and why. I understand why humans modify these plants themselves and that plants can handle it seeing as they all have different numbers of chromosomes unlike humans. I just find it hard to detect in when it happens randomly and not when humans do it.
ID075	I found this confusing because the book went into extreme detail about it and the lecture slides were vague.
ID128	As mentioned earlier, I understand that increased number of X chromosomes can often have little effect on humans because X chromosomes can be deactivated. I also understand that this different from autosomal chromosomes because extra autosomal chromosomes can result in serious defects such as Down Syndrome or even be fatal. However, I do not understand why the X chromosomes can be deactivated or how that happens so I plan to do further research in the text and online. If that doesn't prove successful I intend to talk with Dr. Hughes about the topic or seek help from my discussion TA. I think this would prove more beneficial than peer studying because my question is more in depth on the topic so it would probably be best to seek help from someone who really knows the subject well.
ID138	I am a little confused by this because the bullet above states that they are rate in mammals. I know that the terms are a little different, but I think I am just confused because it seems like one is saying they are common and another is saying they are rare. I was not confused until I read this, but at least it may have pointed out something that I need to learn better.
ID018	I didn't understand how variation in chromosome number could lead to the things it leads to in plants; I also didn't understand how it was tolerable.
ID047	I have read the book and still can not find a clear reason why specifically changes in the number of X chromosomes does not change human phenotype much.
ID119	I understand that plants are able to tolerate additional sets of chromosomes, I just don't know the result of having these extra chromosomes. I know of triploid crops with three homologous sets of chromosomes that are able to produce, but I am still very confused on how these crops are able to produce with one another. This is the hardest topic for me personally to understand in great detail.
ID059	The most challenging topic for me has been trying to understand the decrease in chromosome number not having an effect on human physical apperance. For example I have learned about trisomy and recall most of that information, but not so much about how fewer chromosomes wont show a huge difference in both male and females.
ID072	I felt like the autosomal aneuploidy was harder to try to understand at the beginning. just the concepts of how it happens.
ID132	I know we talked a little about plants and crops in class but not too much time was spent on it, so that's why I do not know much about either plant/crop questions.
ID021	The slides do not offer much explanation for this topic. It seems contradictory that the X chromosome is more expressed than the Y, but that increases or decreases in the chromosome have little effect on the phenotype.
ID120	This is most challenging because I do not quite understand the process of increasing chromosome number.
ID009	I don't understand exactly how this happens; why this is okay in plants but not humans.
ID102	I give them all equal amount of difficulty understanding.
ID135	I do not understand the specific mechanisms that cause some viable and some inviable gametes in the child while not effecting mitosis.
ID039	This to me was the most difficult as I mentioned previously. I know that mutations cause higher concentrations of reactive oxygen species when cell respiration occurs. The thing that I don't fully understand is why and exactly what is a reactive oxygen species. In class, there was only a couple of slides about it, and those went by fast and didn't provide much detail.
ID094	I don't remember discussing this much in class and I wish we went further in depth, it seems like we only skimmed over it so I don't know that I learned all the detail that I need to.
ID057	I do not really understand this because we talked about different examples in class about mutation in the mitochondria but we didn't really go into get detail in regards to how respiration is directly effected.
ID070	Because it is a very general topic with small amount of evidence
ID000	I would guess that they found mt mutations the most conceptually difficult
ID109	I do not remember covering this in class. I feel so lost. I looked it up and I see the evidence that suggests why these events are symbiotic, but I do not understand why this evidence bring that conclusion. Both organelles are similar, but does that mean that they have to be related? I want more of an explanation of why the evidence draws that conclusion.
ID083	I need to read more about this to further understand it.
ID079	I do not understand translocation with respect to the process of meiosis, and how different stages of meiosis will produce different results when translocation occurs.
ID064	Translocations are a little bit confusing because I do not know why this process happens or the mechanism of what exactly goes on for the segments to actually switch. I plan on re-reading the chapter, reviewing the notes, and if that fails, then searching the web or emailing my professor to ask further questions about this concept.
ID105	I don't fully understand this concept yet I only know that the example of yeast where there is a petite mitochondrial mutation result in respiration difficulties.
ID026	I found this topic the most difficult to understand because I am still not entirely sure what the mutations do to the mitochondria. How do these mutations affect respiration?
ID101	The inversion of a chromosome is complicated and required much thought and follow up with external resources.
ID056	I feel like there isn't a lot of information about the general topic of mitochondrial mutations without going into detail on specific mutations. I understand what a general mitochondrial mutation would cause but what specific part of the mitochondria is altered?
ID044	Understanding translocations between chromosomes has been the most difficult to understand due to the different types of translocations and understanding how segments of chromosomes can change between two non homologous chromosomes.  It is difficult to determine which type of translocation has occurred when comparing two sets of chromosomes.
ID013	I found this topic challenging because I have never studied mitochondria mutations and diseases. I understand that mitochondria are inherited from the mother, but I am interested in different mechanisms of these diseases and how they directly affect respiration in the cell.
ID068	I do not fully understand how these were formed from the eukaryotic cell engulfing the bacteria.
ID040	I had a hard time understanding how paracentric vs. pericentric inversions work. The pictures in the book were rather confusing. I have been looking over the chapter and it is beginning to make more sense. Drawing out the picture also helped me make some sense of it.
ID038	Since chromosome codes for all proteins, why would a mutation in mitochondria affect respiration. Chromosome can manufacture other mitochondria if one is defected.
ID061	I do not understand how eukaryotic organisms could have ever survived without mitochondria and chloroplasts. Since eukaryotic cells needs to be able to be able to connect cellular respiration or, if they are part of a plant, to be able to capture energy from sunlight, I do not understand how cells ever existed without these two organelles.
ID053	I understand why mitochondrial DNA are very susceptible to mutations, but I don't quite understand exactly why the mutations affect respiration, except for the fact that mitochondria are the sites of cellular respiration.
ID069	I am not clear on how exactly respiration is affected by mitochondrial mutations. I understand that mtDNA is highly susceptible to mutation and that mitochondria is responsible for respiration, but I just don't think the lecture adequately explained the cause and effect.
ID115	I understand how translocations occur as well as the results of certain translocations, but given certain circumstances in a problem or question given, I am confused as to how many chromosomes that organism may have, if the chromosome still functions and how it affects progeny.
ID116	I do not have a full understanding of respiration so this is a bit difficult for me to understand. Therefore, I do not fully know how mitochondrias' can affect respiration because I do not understand respiration itself.
ID093	I need to study more about inversion loops and the results of the meiotic crossover within them. Of all the chromosomal rearrangements, this is the hardest for me to grasp. Figure 8-16 is confusing but I feel that with a bit of studying, it will become clear.
ID096	I understand the basic concept of this and I know the definition, however, I think I need to read more and learn more about the specifics. I would have difficulty going in depth to explain this.
ID023	Out of the four potions, I found this topic the hardest to understand. This reasoning is not because the material is difficult, but I did not know if I should follow the book or the instructor's conflicting notes on this topic. I wish that there was more uniformity when it came to the facts provided.
ID043	I just don't understand what symbiotic means or how it applies to this. I'm thinking of sympatric speciation
ID059	I rated this as the lowest because I don't understand the concept of a bacterium being enguffed by another organism, but not digested and this process leads to the development of another cell that has multiple functions. This process that I have read doesn't seem logical, but researchers have determined that this symbiotic and coevolution of events have changed history.
ID092	I am having the most trouble with this concept mainly because I have not spent the time it requires to fully understand it.  I understand the general idea that mutations in the mitochondria energy pathways results in errors in respiration which are very detrimental to cells.  However, I am not sure exactly where in the pathways the errors occur and what the cause of these errors are.   Also, I feel that there are many possible mutations and I am not sure what each is responsible for.
ID090	This topic is very difficult for me to grasp as I do not understand how it was able to be determined that this was an ancient, symbiotic relationship between an bacteria and an eukaryotic cell especially when there is evidence that does not support the theory.
ID075	I found this difficult to understand because the slides were not much in detail and the book's way of wording confused me. I am still unable to confidently see why mitochondrial mutations affect respiration.
ID118	Most challenging to understand is that how mitochondria mutation effects respiration when there are multiple mitochondria in cell and divide separately then cell itself.
ID113	I understand that mitochondrial mutations affect respiration; however, I'm not sure if the main reason for the affect in respiration is due to the abnormal electron transport.
ID140	I don't understand why this is important. I need to know more about it to make this connection.
ID077	I rated myself lower on mitochondrial mutations affect respiration because I know that the mitochondria is power house of the cell which is the point for aerobic respiration but I am still confused on how exactly it involves oxygen and does the respiration of the cell.
ID031	This is the most challenging because it is hard to be able to figure out what type of inversion occurs just by seeing the chromosomes.
ID003	I have seen all the information of how it effects the respiration.
ID020	I found chromosome inversions the hardest to understand because it's hard for me to understand the inversions with the single crossover and the inversion loop. I don't really understand sometimes what is the purpose of the inversion loop and where they exactly make the loop.
ID028	This subject is challenging for me because I do not know of many real world examples where this causes a problem. Additional examples and explanations would help my understanding.
ID081	I understand that there are two types of inversions, pericentric and paracentric. I also understand that these inversions have something to do with the presence or absence of centromeres during inversions. However, I do not understand the overall effect of the presence or absence of a centromere and the end result of inversions.
ID099	I don't really understand the depth to this statement. Yes i understand it is possible and that a lot of complications arise from it but as an overall concept it does not seem to carry much depth
ID129	I am unclear on how these mutations affect respiration and if they can also affect humans.
ID030	This was a difficult concept for me to understand as I feel it was not extensively covered in class. I have virtually no idea what affects and inversion may have on an offspring. I feel the most difficult part of this topic will be understanding the mechanisms which cause inversions. Its something I have very little background in and I would expect it to be very detailed information.
ID150	The replication process of inverted chromosomes is very confusing. I understand the process but it is hard for me to fully grasp it without a good visual understanding.
ID100	I understand what a chromosome inversion entails and what it can cause, but I am still a little confused as to the mechanism behind this chromosome aberration. I need to look into this topic more. Is it because of weak fragile sites or something else?
ID133	I did not find these concepts challenging to understand.
ID058	From looking at the slides, I understand that the most common mutation affecting respiration results in damage to the electron transport chain and I understand why that is detrimental, but I wish there were more specific examples of mutations that affect the electron transport chain in the notes.
ID108	I don't remember which translocations are which at first glance- it takes me a while to remember the specifics of each translocation.
ID098	I am not sure I fully understand the evidence behind this conclusion. I feel confident that I understand the co-evolution mechanism that it entails, but I do not really understand what specific findings have led to this conclusion.
ID048	I failed to understand how exactly the mutations affect respiration cellular detail, I do understand the basic details.
ID065	I am not entirely sure how so many DNA inconsistencies can be found, but I do understand why they would be different. I do not understand how the DNA nucleotide orders are found in cells, and this is why I do not entirely understand this concept. I know it involves computer software, but I do not understand how so many specific differences can be found within such a complex molecule like DNA. I do know how this relates to the endosymbiosis theory, and I understand how this relationship theoretically came to be. I do not entirely understand the experiments done in order to theorize this relationship, though.
ID117	I didn't have any particular problems with the four concepts from this week's lecture.
ID007	I had already studied two of these topics before, and I thought the section on translocations was relatively intuitive.  Inversions themselves are not difficult to understand, but I had some trouble with their effects on meiosis and ultimately on gametes.  I could not fully keep up with the topic in lecture and felt most of the diagrams in the slides and the books took a long time to understand.
ID060	This is the hardest to understand because segments of the chromosomes are inverted from end to end.
ID017	This one may be my most challenging because I am not well-versed in the process of inverted chromosome segments as of right now. I do not understand fully the effects on an individual who exhibits inversion as well as how it affects the individual chromosomal function.
ID143	I believe that this concept is especially difficult to understand because scientists have not fully illustrated the idea that the symbiotic relationship between mitochondria and chloroplasts has been developed over entire millenniums. This idea is also difficult to understand because I do not know exactly how mitochondria and chloroplasts function together; many symbiotic relationships can be parasitic and actually negative for the development of an organism.
ID021	I honestly do not remember us even going over this topic in class at all. Maybe I wasn't listening during this discussion, but all I know about this is inferred drawing from kinesiology physiology topics and from understanding of mutations in this class.
ID144	The two types of inversions are parametric and pericentric. Paracentric inversions do not contain the centromere. Pericentric inversions do contain the centromere. Often a result of inversions in heterozygotes is sterility.
ID132	I'm not really sure why mutations in the mitochondria affect respiration. I have been doing some research on the Internet and cannot find much besides that the mitochondria is the power house of most cells and it may interfere with The reactions we use to breathe.
ID055	I recall talking about this in class but I do not remember a lot of details. I understand that mitochondrial mutation affects respiration but i do not know the reasoning behind it. Therefore, I need to look for more information on this topic in my book.
ID114	I understand the concept of translocations, but I do not specifically understand why translocations can cause cancer, down syndrome, or infertility. How is a person more likely to develop cancer or down syndrome if they have a translocation? Is it due to the exchange of genetic information?
ID054	I'm aware of the fact that mitochondrial mutations cause forms of lung cancer, which will have an effect on respiration. But my knowledge of that topic is very general and could be more refined.
ID127	The reason why this is difficult to understand is because I focused more on the translocations and not the inversions. However, I have a basic understanding of how it works and what happens when this occurs, such as a rearrangement of genes or an effect in crossing over.
ID042	This is a difficult topic to understand because there are different forms of inverted chromosomes.
ID011	I do not understand how these mutations affect the mitochondria or cell as a whole. I likely missed the lecture that covered this topic or simply did not pay attention. I also do not fully understand how the mitochondria operates except for the fact that they produce energy in the cell.
ID134	This topic is vague somewhat, but also holds a vast amount f different possibilities for what is affects
ID027	I understand the concept, but the specific applications (like fruit flies or diseases) are not as clear. I feel I did poorly on the exam in this category due to lack of specific information on the topics. I also feel that its affects on reproduction should be emphasized more clearly.
ID146	Because I have the least familiarity with this concept, I may need to review the evidence and explanations for the process of the development of chloroplasts/mitochondria from organisms to organelles.
ID050	I feel as if this was not elaborated on in class enough also the book explanation was very confusing as well. My main confusion is to how the inverted organism become sterile.
ID091	I thought that inversion loops were difficult to understand. It takes time to think through what is going on at the cellular level in great detail.
ID151	Although this topic logically makes sense, it has taken me longer to understand this topic because this is something I have never been exposed to. The difficulty in comprehending this topic stems from the lack of familiarity with this topic rather than not being able to piece the given information together.
ID084	I understand what happens in a translocation, and how to determine between the two different types. Where my knowledge is limited is the effects that each translocation has on an organism.
ID088	This concept is interesting. But, it is hard to understand because it happened so long ago and is not a phenomenon that we have the ability to observe today. It would help if there was a video to explain this more thoroughly.
ID107	I understand the concept but not the detailed mechanism of how mitochondrial mutations can affect respiration.
ID142	I do not remember this being discussed in class.
ID141	This is the most challenging of the choices, but for the most part, I understand the concept.
ID138	I think this is very confusing because there can be many problems I would imagine in the respiratory system. I am curious as to what would distinguish these from the affects of mitochondrial mutations. I think it is tricky because the respiratory system is a very complicated process to begin with.
ID002	I think this was the most difficult to understand in that DNA is moved and it can affect a range of things. Various diseases can pop up from a simple transfer. Knowing how translocation affects other chromosomes was difficult for me.
ID016	I do not quite understand the concept of the mitochondria having a separate genome. Also, the mutations make sense, but the interference with function is confusing.
ID006	Im still wondering if this is part of crossing over or another sub division of translocation
ID123	Chromosomal inversions is the most challenging subject because I don't understand how the inversion effects the phenotype or the genotype.  The bases are the same, but they are in a different order.  I do not understand how this effects the genotype or phenotype of the particular individual.
ID036	Trans location can occur between chromosomes. It is one of the chromosomal abnormalities that can occur. It is responsible for genetics defects such as robertsonian syndrome an d certain cancers. It occurs when a set of sister chromosome are switched, and become one.
ID095	Visually understanding the inversions in the chromosome pairings can be trivial.  Parts of the tetrads can be complex.
ID111	I consider this the most challenging because it is the most difficult for me to picture in my head. I can tell you the process of it occurring but I can't give much detail behind why this occurs and things like that. I understand the process and the outcome, but I'm not sure why this happens.
ID085	This was difficult to understand because of the segregation patterns. I can see why alternate translocation is viable, but I do not understand why adjacent segregation-1 and -2 are not balanced translocations. Despite having one set of balanced and the other without, couldn't mutations aid in balance?
ID128	This topic was most difficult for me to understand because I understand that chromosomes can become inverted and have little effect but I do not understand how the inversions happen and what leads to them and also how it has an impact on the next generation more than it impacts the individual.
ID072	I feel like the Mitochondrial mutations affect respiration was the hardest concept to grasp. I didn't really look into this topic that much, and I need to find the topic to reread and understand.
ID047	I know these are a form of mutation, but I have trouble illustrating how translocations exactly happen in my mind from just reading definitions.
ID082	The effects of mitochondrial mutations is the most vague concept to me, because I feel like there is such a wide interpretation of what this concept really entails. Obviously, advantageous mutations that occurred in the ancient prokaryotic cell that was incorporated into the cytoplasm of the host cell resulted in the existence of present day cells. However, the specific implications of present day mutations in individuals seem unclear. I understand that since most mutations are deleterious, most of these present day mutations should negatively impact the ability of the mitochondria to perform its role in respiration, but I am a little unclear about whether or not mutations could also lead to even more efficient or better respiration (like they did throughout evolution).
ID131	I am unclear on how this process actually occurs and the process behind it. The topic seems to make sense, but I struggle to see how the different types differ from one another in their effect they have on the cell.
ID104	I don't understand this one the most, because i don't remember talking about it in lecture or anywhere else in class.
ID149	I just don't understand this topic. I couldn't find anything on the web about the DNA mutations affecting respiration, so I'm just confused.
ID086	This topic is harder to understand because there are lots of syndromes and disorders that can occur. It can be hard to place what things went and go where.
ID119	This topic is the most challenging for me personally, because I am simply less familiar with this topic in comparison to the others. I am fully confident in my knowledge of the other topics, the but the concept of mitochondrial mutations is something that I have not studied a lot on. I understand that these mutations affect cellular respiration, but I am not sure of all of the effects that this will have on the cell.
ID052	I know that the mitochondria is inherited from the mother by all of her offspring. However i do not know how one would detect such abberations and how these defects may affect certain bodily functions such as respiration.
ID120	This is the most challenging because Im not sure how the chromsomes actually switch DNA, but i believe its during mitosis or meiosis. There chromosomes break and bind with one another.
ID073	I do not undwrstand how through the G1 a=phase and check points that this is not corrected. I dont understand how a offspring born could not survive
ID082	The only reason I feel that I understand this concept in the least depth is because I dont think I understand how they came up with all of the seven aspects of their model. I understand the base pairing and hydrogen bonds, but I dont understand the physics because how or why they necessarily came up with the antiparallel right-handed double helix in particular. Specifically, I dont understand why DNA couldnt have been parallel, linear, or even why a left-handed helix doesnt work (even though now we know that Z-DNA can be created in the laboratory and might exist in cells).
ID109	I just don't understand the process of how he conducted the experiment. The results make sense, but I can't piece it all together. I think I need to look at this experiment step by step then I will understand it better. How do these steps make sense? Some of them seem redundant and unnecessary.
ID014	I really do not understand how the process of transformation can help justify that DNA is the hereditary material. I understand that plasmids are typically taken up but I do not understand how the transference of plasmids to other bacterium help show that DNA is genetic material. If the bacterial DNA of the cell is not bothered during the uptake.
ID065	This was the hardest for me to understand because I was not aware of how they stained the DNA and the protein capsid. I understand all the data and the results, but the fact that I don't have the understanding behind the staining techniques is why I have a mental block and feel like I do not entirely understand the experiment.
ID027	I understand the concept, but it was the most difficult to understand due to the "complex" steps in their procedure. This was mainly due to the figures in the textbook being unclear, but the in class lecture was able to clear it up.
ID056	I understand everything that Watson and Crick established in their model but the notes and book don't really go into detail about how they found their information. It just lists what they found and who they used supplemental data from.
ID094	I don't understand how radiolabeling was carried out and why it did not impair function of protein.
ID093	I am familiar with the research papers of Avery, McCarthy, MacLeod, Hershey, and Chase. But I have yet to read the papers from Watson and Crick. I look forward to seeing what they observed in their own words. Research papers from these influential people and others are a good way to see how our understanding has changed in such a short amount of time.
ID105	I understand all of these topics fairly well. I do think this topic was the hardest of the three to understand, but I do understand it well.
ID089	I have learned about these experiments in the past. The only difficulty will be putting the names with the faces, or with the experiments.
ID057	This experiment by Avery, McCarty and Macleod I found trouble understanding exactly how this related to the bigger picture of DNA was the genetic material.
ID061	I have a hard time understanding how heat killed cells could still transfer genetic material to other cells. It seems kind of odd that a dead cell could transfer information.
ID081	I understand that deoxyribonucleodepolymerase was the only product that caused a destruction of the transforming power. Therefore, it led to information supporting that point that DNA was the genetic material, but I don't quite understand the background or basis of the experiment.
ID096	I can state what Frederick contributed and what his findings were. I am just having difficulty understanding this topic beyond the facts and fully understanding the concepts.
ID000	It would seem that the Hershey Chase experiment was the most difficult for them but we'll see after the exam.
ID013	This experiment is somewhat confusing to me. I understand the Griffith experiment with the mice, but this experiment is somewhat confusing because my notes show that they used mice while my book shows that they used tubes to test for transformation and looked at the types of cells in the tubes instead of the reaction of the mice. I understand that the enzymes were used to see which molecule digestion results in the loss of ability to harm the mice, but I am confused as to why they are looking at the presence of only R strains or both S and R strains to determine whether the enzyme harmed the molecule.
ID063	This topic is a little tricky. I understand the basis and foundation that the experiments showed DNA was the genetic material to bacteriophage. Other than that, I need to solidify this knowledge.
ID102	I think I have a pretty clear and equal understanding of all the concepts.
ID026	I found Frederick's experiments the most difficult to understand. I believe I may have been looking at the situation to closely and not realizing the overall results of the experiment, thinking there was more to it rather than the substance that was used. I have trouble seeing the overall purpose of some topics which can cause me to overanalyze the problem and use false information to reason it.
ID136	The experiments from this concept were challenging to fully understand.
ID068	It was hard to understand at first the differences in the 2 strains.
ID101	The concept of gaining genes from dead bacteria and deciphering the controls is the most difficult part of this concept.
ID070	All these concepts arent really challenging because for the most part it is just about understanding the experiments and what it is and accomplished.
ID022	It is very confusing for me to understand that when they are taking a virulent strain and affect the mice and using an enzyme and thus destroying proteins, lipids and other molecule how is that proving the point of weather the genetic material is being passed or not. i understand that since the only way to pass on an information is through DNA but if that strain of virulent bacteria damages the DNA of the mice then how does it survies, since if the DNA is damaged the cell gets damaged and due to this the organism would die so i am confused how did the mice survive.
ID103	None of the topics this week were really that challenging compared to most weeks. I chose the Hershey Chase experiment because it was the most difficult of the topics to learn, but it was really not that hard.
ID079	I understand that the main finding was later discovered to be DNA, but I do not understand the procedure. I understand that this experiment led to Avery's experiment, which resulted in the discovery that the transforming principle is DNA.
ID113	I understand that the experiment is based from Griffith's experiment, but I don't understand the major difference between Avery, McCarty and MacLeod vs Griffith's conclusions.
ID021	This concept has a lot of ins and outs because it is based on many past experiments and the details of each finding are important to the structure and function of DNA. Although I understand the overview of this concept the best, I do not have the details memorized. I need to diagram and study each point of this concept.
ID069	I was most confused as to how the heat-killed IIIS strains could transfer their genetic material to the IIR strains, enabling them to kill the mice when in combination. It took me extensive study to understand that though the IIIS bacteria was killed, its DNA survived the heating process, and that the DNA is what was taken up by the II-R strain bacteria.
ID024	Bacterial transformation is a very confusing concept and Frederick's experiment did not really make much sense to me. I understand sort of how it works, but I do not understand how exactly it works.
ID039	I thought this was the most challenging simple because the information was a lot to take in. For me, I had to reread it a couple of times to understand what was going on. Also, their experiment was an extension of Frederick's experiment in a way, so I had to make sure that I understood Frederick's experiment before I could grasp this one.
ID053	The intricacies of the structure of DNA are very hard to remember, and what evidence Watson and Crick used to make which findings can become confusing as well.
ID049	All the experiments are straightforward and easy to understand. One just needs to follow the set up and logic of how the scientists came to their conclusions
ID118	This study is very challenging to understand for me as their are many methods and steps involved involving different chemical representing different biological aspects of cell.
ID052	I'm most unfamiliar with Frederick Griffith's experimental works. I know that he discovered that mixing certain strains caused the re-emergence of a virulent state. However, I don't quite understand which types of strains were included each trial and how the result came to be.
ID059	I rated Avery, McCarty, and MacCleod's experiment the lowest because I do not have a clear understanding to why the public did not support his experiment of DNA being the transferred genetic material. His experiment feeded off other researchers experiments, but his use of test tubes instead of mice was similar to Hershey-Chase, but the material used ans supporting evidence may not have been that supported to be believed by many others. I alos don't understand quite as much of what he included in his experiment, but I know that most of the experiments were mostly similar with small changes and supportive evidence.
ID034	bacteria from the III-S strain were killed by heat, and their remains were added to II-R strain bacteria. While neither alone harmed the mice, the combination was able to kill its host. Griffith was also able to isolate both live II-R and live III-S strains of pneumococcus from the blood of these dead mice. Griffith concluded that the type II-R had been "transformed" into the lethal III-S strain by a "transforming principle" that was somehow part of the dead III-S strain bacteria.
ID040	I understand how Watson and Crick used the research of others and were able to put them together like puzzle pieces to figure out the structure of DNA but I do not understand how they were able to determine so much about the molecule with just those two main pieces of information. I do understand the base pairing and double helix formation and how they work in the DNA molecule but I have a hard time picturing how they came up with this answer.
ID058	I understand that the virulent bacteria are virulent because of the capsule they have. It makes it difficult for them to be swallowed whereas the avirulent do not have that capsule. Somehow the avirulent bacteria get transformed into virulent. I am unsure about the mechanism in which they become transformed.
ID142	I think this is the hardest to understand because I do not fully understand their methods of this experiment. Had I have done them in a lab, I think I would understand better.
ID124	I am still slightly confused how the DNA is absorbed in the cell and then is involved in the replication process and can completely change the cell
ID015	Avery, McCarty, and McLeod's experiment was a little difficult to understand. Their experiment used Griffith's experiment as background information which I understood but their experiment confused me.
ID111	This is the most challenging for me to understand because they base their experiment and model off of many different people's discoveries. They have information coming from multiple sources and it is hard for me to keep up with. I understand the basis of the model and they are all doing different experiments for the same purpose and to find the same information, but I have a hard time keeping all of the info for this experiment straight. I also have a hard time seeing what they did different from other people since they were all trying to prove the same thing.
ID115	I understand that Frederick's experiments determined that DNA was the hereditary material early on, but I don't understand the experiments that led to this.
ID035	The understanding of how watson and crick came about there results confused me since they never used actual experiments on their own i am not sure how they found how the relationship between A and T; G and C.
ID140	We learned about this in intro bio but I found the specifics of it to be challenging- I struggle with micro-type biology and I think this is just something that is inherently difficult for me to grasp.
ID064	The Avery, McCarty and MacLeod experiments had more details to understand, but once elucidated, the experimental design made sense. It was just understanding the details of what was added when and why. There were a lot of steps involved, and lots of enzymes, but once it was obvious that the enzymes were removing their respective material (ex: RNase removes RNA) it was obvious that they were eliminating parts of the culture one by one to see which one affected transformation.
ID104	I didn't quite remember how he was able to determine this. This was probably because I hadn't heard of this experiment before and I had covered the other three topics in other classes at least a little bit.
ID147	I had a hard time understnad this difference between their experiments and Fredericks Experiments
ID048	I don't know the details about this.
ID097	For this experiment, I need to familiarize myself to the methods portion to help understand this topic better.
ID129	I am confused about the differences between the experiments between Avery, McCarty, and MacLeod and how they all proved that DNA was the genetic material.
ID030	This topic must have been a difficult one to me as I am unable to recall it from lecture and reading. I do not think that the mechanisms underlying the experiment were particularly hard to grasp, I simply cannot remember the experiment or its significance. To gain a better understanding, I will reread the corresponding text and lecture notes.
ID036	Avery, MacLeod used Streptococcus pneumoniae bacteria nucleoid and purified the DNA, proteins and other materials. They mixed R bacteria with different materials. They saw that only those mixed with DNA were transformed into S bacteria.
ID055	I had a hard time explaining this topic because even though I understand the experiment and what it lead to it was difficult to put into words.
ID090	I understand that the IIR strains were transformed to IIIS but I am still a little confused as to the actual procedure of the experiment. I would like further explanation of this experiment
ID107	I understand the concept of Frederick's experiments but I find the detailed procedures of his experiment to be confusing. I need to study his work in more detail.
ID127	I have forgotten the experiment done by Frederick. I know he used mice and two different bacteria strains with different versions of coats, but I cannot exactly recall how he determined that DNA was the  hereditary material.
ID145	I get this experiment and the Hershey-Chase experiment confused. I think it is because they both use bacteria and adding treated bacteria to find results.  I understand the two separate experiments, I just get confused on who performed them and the what the results signified.
ID044	I think this topic was the hardest to learn and understand because the experiment was the most difficult to follow.  The experiment has many specific constraints and treatments as well as definitions that you have to learn, understand, and follow.
ID120	This is not hard to understand but I would like to understand how they radioactively labeled DNA and the coats.
ID123	I found this concept to be the most challenging because I don't understand how the heat killed strain of bacteria transfers its genetic material to the rough strain.  I also do not understand how this, in turn, kills the mice if the smooth strain was heat treated.  The mechanism in this experiment does not make sense to me.
ID144	Hershey and Chase showed that when bacteriophages, which are composed of DNA and protein, infect bacteria, their DNA enters the host bacterial cell, but most of their protein does not
ID023	I could not remember this topic, experiment, or details. I feel as if this information could have gotten lost between the more known experiments and the information that surrounds them. I also did not find this experiment in my instructor's powerpoint, and this experiment did not come up during my quiz on this chapter either.
ID002	I found this the most challenging to understand in that it was just more detailed than the others. I had to understand the base pairing and how the hydrogen bonding affected the structure
ID143	Although I understand the idea that bacteria can transfer information among each other, I do not fully understand how they are capable of doing this.  I think that the confusing part of this concept is that prokaryotes and eukaryotes possess many differences, and it is hard to understand how we can share the same genetic material as bacteria.
ID091	All of the experiments take some time to distinguish between.
ID011	I do not recall seeing this in lecture which likely contributes to my understanding.  I simply do not know what the experiment is or how it was performed.  It does sound similar to Avery's experiment which I also did not fully understand.
ID132	I understand the overall concept but not exactly about each strain and what happened to the mice and the heat killed bacteria and what all actually happened during the experiment.
ID088	This concept was the most challenging to understand. This is because I did not know how Avery, McCarty, and MacLeod knew how to manipulate their strains in order to find out what they did not know. Back in their day, protein was thought to decide genetics. But, these people figured out that it was DNA. It took a lot of searching on the internet in order to understand better.
ID131	This one was the most difficult to conceptualize only because it requires some pretty in-depth remembrance of the cycle of bacteriophage replication which can be confusing.
ID007	This was the most difficult one because I had not studied it before.  In BIO 160 we studied all the other experiments listed (all except Avery, McCarty, and MacLeod we even studied in more depth than we did in class this week).
ID095	X-ray diffraction is described vaguely, and I don't fully understand the structure represented in the image of the book of the DNA double helix.  Also I need more understanding of the actual hydrogen bonding taking place in the nitrogenous base pairs.
ID114	I do not understand why Avery, McCarty and Macleod are considered "definitive." Maybe it was just science at the time, but I'm not sure why experiments conducted by other people were not as accepted as "definitive" than the experiment conducted by these three people.
ID006	It was confusing if they were using a bacteria or a virus to help them determine that dna was the genetic material but i realize it was both.
ID141	This is the hardest of the four concepts for me to follow precisely.  I understand how they went about their experiment, but I am unsure about the individual steps which brought them to the conclusion that DNA was the genetic material.
ID083	Griffith worked with two strains of Diplococcus pneumonia, strain IIR which had a rough surface and was avirulent and strain IIIS which was virulent and caused pneumonia. When live IIR or dead IIIS bacteria were injected into mice, the mice did not get pneumonia and lived. When live IIIS bacteria were injected into mice, the mice died from pneumonia. Paradoxically, when dead IIIS bacteria and live IIR bacteria were injected together, the mice died and live IIIS bacteria were recovered.
ID028	This one is difficult to understand because the process is complicated. How did they take the specific portion out without tampering with other parts of the cell too?
ID133	I found these topics to be straightforward and easy to learn. Most were just understanding the experiments conducted by these people. The graphics in the book helped with understanding the process better.
ID151	I believe Avery, McCarty, and MacLeod is the hardest topic amongst all the experiments, because I seem to forget details of this experiment quite frequently. Although I do understand this experiment, itself, and the significance of this experiment, I just need to learn how certain enzymes were able to absolve crucial bio molecules without affecting other macromolecules or even other structures within the bacterial cell. By destroying each macromolecule in each group, the tea searchers were able to conclude that DNA is the source of genetic information and not lipids, carbohydrates, and proteins. I believe this topic is only challenging because I do not know the actual process by which the macromolecules are destroyed along with the fact that I sometimes forget about this experiment as well.
ID085	I do not understand why they had to bother to eliminate RNA instead of just worrying about proteins and DNA. Wasn't RNA discovered after DNA? Also, why was it called "in vitro" when the mice were definitely not?
ID137	It was difficult to understand the reasoning behind him using the different strains of bacteria that determined his outcome. However, upon further reading and research, her explanation from lecture became more certain.
ID073	I do not fully understand their experiment. I believe that I do not understand it because I have not memorized the material yet. I find memorizing all the enzymes used to be hard because the names are so long.
ID086	This is a little more challenging than the rest because so many different scientists were involved in the proposing of this idea.
ID080	Even though I understand what the test does and how it is performed I struggle with some of the finer details that goes into the test itself. I don't get why it works and how they discovered it.
ID098	I couldn't find anything about Frederick in the lecture notes, and I have not yet read chapter 10, so I don't know much about him or his experiments at all.
ID075	I was unable to find adequate information on Frederick's experiments in the powerpoint slides. I usually use the slides greatly to understand concepts. Therefore, it has been a little difficult understanding this.
ID050	I am not sure as to why it is relevant to the subject material since Fredrick's experiment was virtually the same thing.
ID108	I understand that transformation occurs by picking up genes in teh environment I just don't understand how it can develop a live 3S strain and kill the mouse so quickly when living 2r and dead 3s are mixed.
ID077	I am still confused on how the combination of the IIIS strain and IIR strain lead to transformation into the lethal IIIS strain.
ID042	This has been the most challenging for me to understand because rather than just changing one aspect of the experiment, Hershey and Chase have different forms of DNA and different compounds being used.
ID146	Avery, McCarty, and McLeod's experiment is the most complicated/unfamiliar to me personally because of the many different strains used to break down different components of the bacteria to isolate DNA as solely responsible for the transfer of hereditary material. I just need to brush up on the material involved and elements taken out of each variation.
ID128	I found the topic of Watson and Crick basing their model off of the data from Erwin Chargaff and Rosalind Franklin most difficult to understand. I understand the Watson and Crick model very well and have studied it in multiple classes but I don't know enough about the other experiments performed by Chargaff and Franklin to understand how their information led to the model. Therefore, I plan on doing more reading on their experiments and most likely supplementing reading the textbook with research online. If that doesn't prove effective enough I will probably talk to Dr. Hughes about it in office hours because she seemed to really enjoy talking about this topic in class.
ID117	I was slightly confused by the critical experiment with the heat-killed IIIS and the living IIR, because you would expect the mouse to live based on the previous results and yet it didn't. It was hard for me to understand how heat-killed IIIS and living IR could somehow result in living IIIS in the cells of the dead mouse after the fact.
ID009	Like I mentioned earlier, Avery, Macleod and McCarty are the only new material to me in this section, so that was the most difficult I guess just because I hadn't learned about them before.
ID010	I feel as though bacterial transformation is the hardest to grasp out of the others. While Griffith's experiment proved transformation it didn't really explain it that well in terms of how the bacteria was able to survive.
ID047	I get how Fredericks work catalyzed other scientists to confrim what the transforming principle is and its imortance, but I am a little confused why and Frederick came up with his conclusions from his findings
ID100	I have the least indepeth understanding of Frederick's experiement. I understand the basis of his experiements, but don't fully know about his experiment set up and design. I believe this might be due to the fact that his experiments weren't as stressed as the others in lecture.
ID020	I find that this experiment was a little difficult to understand for me. I am not too sure on exactly what they did to determine transformation besides using the IIIS virulent cells and the IIR avirulent cells. I'm not too sure on the process used. I think the language used that was difficult for me to understand.
ID072	Didn't really review this topic. Not sure what really was going on.
ID119	Personally, this is the most challenging concept for me to understand because I am unfamiliar with Frederick's experiments. I understand that these experiments were crucial in deterring that DNA is the genetic material, but I do not know much about Frederick or the type of experiments that he conducted. I need to learn more about Frederick and the bacterial transformation experiment.
ID074	I rated myself lower on the watson crick experiment because I dont fully understand the mechanisms behind the experiment as i do with the other experiments. Understnad the concept that A,T and C,G are pair on the DNA strand but how they figured that out with x-ray diffraction is hazy to me.
ID017	Much like I said before, I do not understand this as much because I do not understand the nature of his experiment and how it may have been helpful to determine DNA's hereditary worth.
ID130	Not very discussed in class
ID087	I do not understand why the linear chromosomes in eukaryotes cannot complete all the way to the end of the chromosomes.
ID131	I understand the basic concept, but I struggle to see exactly why this alwas ocurrs. The 5' to 3' direction is obviously favored, but I do not know the specific mode of action.
ID057	I do not really understand this concept whatsoever or why specialized drosophila chromosomes are important. I understand that mutations in drosophila helped our understanding with genetics but I don't understand how this allowed us to identify gene location.
ID085	I found this the most challenging concept to explain because I did not remember Dr. Hughes talking about it in class. I could not find my notes about this material, but Google was my friend. I will go back to my biology 148 textbook and relearn this material, as I might need it for the MCAT as well.
ID027	I do not fully understand how the chromosomes found in this fly enabled the geneticists to gain a better understanding than looking at a regular chromosome. I do not even fully understand exactly what this chromosome is.
ID105	I don't fully understand this concept. I didn't understand sit when it was explained in class and I don't think there is enough information on it in the power point.
ID070	i really don't understand the telomeres create a problem with 5' to 3' replication in Eukaryote
ID098	I have a sturdy understanding on the concept that DNA replication differs between prokaryotes and eukaryotes, but my knowledge of the specifics is rather lacking. Being a big picture-type of learning, this is fairly common for me. I will just need to spend a bit more time looking at the specific mechanisms by which they differ.
ID040	There is a lot to remember. I will have to go over all the different types of polymerase in eukaryotic replication.
ID094	This was challenging to understand because it seems so counterintuitive and I don't remember the reason for this being explained.
ID000	I would guess that they would select DNA replication
ID022	I understand that the bands and interbands are indication for the gene present and thus they show various gene location. However, there could be numerous other place or numberous genes that make up a given protein or a given structure of the organism so only based on bands how can we assume that this the exact location of the gene or that particular gene or a gene of similar kind cannot e found at different location.
ID089	I need to look in my book to confirm my previous beliefs, but other than this one here, I have learned a large portion of these processes before and and currently enjoying the in depth review.
ID030	This is the most difficult topic for me to grasp. This is mostly due to the great knowledge of both eukaryotic and prokaryotic DNA replication that is required. I will be sure to master this before the next exam.
ID046	I found the DNA replication in eukaryotes and prokaryotes difficult simply because of the need to understand entire processes, however I have found that studying them groups has made it easier.
ID079	I understand that without telomerase, chromosome length would be shorter with each replication, but I do not have a solid understanding of the roles of telomeres and telomerase and the order of events they play a role in.
ID063	This is a topic that was not easy to understand in lecture. I understand the basics behind it but I fail to see why it's even a topic worth mentioning. I need to go back to the book and read this section to fully get a grasp on the topic.
ID109	I still struggle with understand the reasoning behind why specialized Drosophila chromosomes allow us to know the identification of gene locations. I understand that the puffs on the chromosome that represent gene activity. I still don't understand why we can determine where the chromosomes are located because of where they separate. Why is that significant to figuring out where genes are located.
ID026	I found this concept to be the most difficult to understand. I have trouble understanding what makes certain areas either light or dark staining regions of the chromosome. I also have difficulty understanding how that affects transcription. I hope to find out more about how this changes transcription trends.
ID024	I understand that polytene chromosomes are very easy to look at and the chromosome puffs help with this, but I do not fully understand how people look at them and see where chromosomes are located.
ID013	I found this topic challenging because I do not understand Polytene chromosomes and how the puffs help identify gene locations. Also, I do not understand the mechanisms behind the C and G banding to identify gene locations on chromosomes.
ID143	Initially, the idea that polytene chromosomes lead to the identification of gene locations was difficult to understand because the process is confusing.  I didn't understand how a larger chromosome would make it easier for researchers to identify locations of genes.  Also, I didn't understand the process of DNA replicating without the cell being able to divide.
ID082	As mentioned briefly in the previous section, I think this topic is the most difficult for me to understand because I dont understand the origins of polytene chromosomes. While I am confident in my ability to describe their features (large, repetitive DNA sequences in bands, paired homologs in somatic cells), I dont understand how these are possible (even if rare) in organisms. I also dont really understand the reason behind why the repetitive sequences of DNA form the distinct bands.
ID064	I still do not understand the exact mechanism of telomeres being attached and feel a little fuzzy on the concept in general.
ID014	It was most difficult for me to understand the role of telomeres when it comes to hindering the chromosome from replicating properly. I do not understand how the external factors can cause such an effect on their length.
ID065	This was the hardest for me to understand because I do not entirely understand why the polymerase enzyme has not evolved to be able to successfully replicate the endings on the chromosomes. I feel like modifying the polymerase enzyme would be more simple than creating telomerase and telomeres all together. This is what kind of confuses me about the topic.
ID111	This is the most challenging for me because I understand the definitions and the concepts involved, but I don't really understand how to apply it and use it. I can tell you the definitions of euchromatic and heterochromatic and what they do and how they are different, but I can't really apply that in a real life scenario or anything like that.
ID101	The differences between eukaryotes and prokaryotes seem random and more difficult to memorize.
ID056	There are several ways in which eukaryotes and prokaryotes differ in replication and I got confused with which ones we are supposed to specify. I am confused if it is referring to small technical details or the overall function of replication.
ID048	I just need a deeper understanding of this.
ID049	Lagging strand replication is difficult to understand because there are more steps than the leading strand because RNA primase works in a different way because it cannot move smoothly in the direction of the lagging strand
ID020	This is the most challenging topic because I think it's hard to understand everything that is going on. You have to know how replication works along with the solution to this problem.
ID091	Initially, i thought that telomeres were helpful with DNA replication and certainly would not cause problems. So, it was hard to adjust what i believed.
ID058	I think it is the most difficult because most things do not undergo reverse transcription. I get the basic process of telomerase adding a RNA template first which then produces DNA and then DNA polymerase can be added, but I do not understand why this process must occur.
ID103	This concept was the most difficult, it took me a while to get an idea of what the gist of this concept was. I was reading all about the polytenes and wondering why are they telling us about these cells at first.
ID059	I rated this one the lowest because I did not understand exactly how drosophila's chromosomes lead to the discovery of our gene locations. With their chromosomes being rearranged slightly different from ours, how did the location, stained, or darker regions of their genetic information lead to the location of our genes/genetic information and functionings.
ID124	I do not understand why only certain parts code for imporant information and why our dna holds onto the unwanted areas and just simply does not code for the unwanted regions
ID093	I need to review polytene chromosomes within Drosophila and the method in which they are studied. I understand that high levels of transcription can be used to locate specific regions of the chromosome but I don't understand how the bands were "lit"
ID108	I don't completely understand how the chromosomes can tell the exact locations of various genes just by euchromatin and heterochromatin.
ID150	This is a much broader topic, and there are many differences between the two processes. It's just a lot to learn, but it isn't complicated.
ID118	I don't understand how specialized Drosophila chromosomes are allowed to specific genes location only even though the whole chromosome is polytene chromosome or lamp brush chromosome. It is formation in larvae then how does it disappears in the adult form.
ID129	I do not understand this concept at all. I do understand that Drosophilia have polytene chromosomes, but I am unclear if these are the specialized chromosomes that allowed for the identification of certain gene locations.
ID007	I found this topic the most difficult because of the sheer volume of information on it.  In particular I felt we covered the differences in the various kinds of prokaryotic vs eukaryotic DNA polymerases very quickly and need to review those in much more depth.
ID107	I understand how they found these specialized genes and what their purpose is, but I am confuses on how they allowed the identification of gene locations.
ID061	I am confused about how the polytene chromosomes and lampbrush chromosomes reveal gene locations. I realize that they can show where a gene is located but I am confused as to how it can be determined that that location is a specific gene. I can only understand how it reveals that is a gene but not how you can determine which gene.
ID096	I understand the basic concept and what the statement is. However, I am having difficulty grasping a more deeper understanding of this significance.
ID134	Knowing the why behind the staining and the processes is hard to understand.
ID077	I am still a little confused on how the polytene chromosomes are formed and are used for gene identification.
ID100	I'm still confused how polytene chromosomose, or puff chromosomes, allow us to identify gene locations. I understand that these oversized chromosomes are produced by multiple rounds of genetic replication without cell division which creates many sister chromatids synapsed together. How this gives us information on localizing genes is still not clear to me.
ID140	This confuses me. I don't know why it is really a problem.
ID115	I need to re-read the polytene chromosomes of DNA for Drosophila and re-learn the material needed to understand how the genes were identified by researchers.
ID116	I found this statement to be very broad, therefore I am not positive that I have correctly identified the specialized chromosomes within the Drosophila. I also am not sure as to what this means completely. I have looked through the notes and I cannot be certain that I identified it correctly.
ID031	Just trying to see all the differences that occur between the two is hard to keep up with.
ID092	I found this the most challenging concept so far because I have spent the least amount of time studying it and taking notes on it.  I know the general underlying idea that eukaryotic DNA is more complex and is double stranding while prokaryotic DNA is a singular strand.  I also know that the eukaryotic replication is therefore more complicated.
ID127	I do not remember much about polytene chromosomes, however, I know these are the chromosomes that are specialized in Drosophila and are known for their large size.
ID137	They both undergo different functions during replication and it's hard to remember which steps prokaryotes or eukaryotes undergo.
ID081	I am very confused on how exactly the newly synthesized DNA strand becomes shorter on the 5' end than the original DNA strand. I don't understand how this occurs or how it creates an overhang between the two 3' ends.
ID090	I am confused as to the methods that researchers implement to find the gene location in both polytene and lampbrush chromosomes. Since the chromosomes are highly unusual, how are they "useful" in identifying genes?
ID033	I don't really know why they create a problem only that they do.
ID141	I understand the different specialized Drosophila chromosomes are polytene chromosomes and lampbrush chromosomes.  I am not having trouble understanding that they are areas of gene activity, but is that all that there is to these specialized chromosomes?
ID133	At first, the process of how the telomeres and their enzymes fix the 3' overlap problem was confusing to me. I had to look up more information on it online and review it multiple times before it made sense.
ID008	I did not fully understand how the cycle knows when to shorten the length of the chromosome sets when they stop early in the stage.
ID053	This is such a broad concept that I need to review.  Many differences exist, and it is difficult remembering them, especially the smaller differences.
ID069	I had trouble understanding why polytene chromosome associate the way they do and why they create easier identification. I don't think this topic was covered extensively enough in class and that the textbook material on it was brief.
ID043	I have been having trouble with the whole DNA replication process and how it all works.
ID039	This was the hardest simply because we just briefly mentioned it in class and that was it. There was only a few slides, but we didn't focus a whole lot on it.
ID151	I feel like this topic was more challenging to comprehend because this topic was discussed really quickly in lecture and I was unable to review the information on my own time after lecture. However, I have been exposed to the fact that differences did exist between eukaryotes and prokaryotes in terms of DNA replication, but I was unaware about the complex mechanisms involved in DNA replication in eukaryotes. I also didn't take into account for the difference that prokaryotes are highly variable in their genetic composition, such as some may have circular DNA while some may have linear DNA, thus creating similarities and even greater differences during DNA replication.
ID117	The wording of this concept confused me. I read it as somehow the presence of telomeres hindered DNA replication, and yet from what I took in during lecture and from the readings was that the presence of these was a good thing because it protected DNA strands.
ID095	The direction of replication on either strand of the DNA confuses me, and I need to spend more time studying this part of the material.
ID035	Finding information about this topic was very hard. I had a hard time finding writing and information that wasnt just published experiments.
ID078	I have no clue what this is and cant find any information about it in the book or the lecture slides, I also don't recollect learning about it in lecture.
ID068	It is hard to understand how the genes are more easily identified in these polytene chromosomes
ID075	I was having trouble with this concept because the book describes it in so much detail that it go confusing. The notes were a little broad.
ID055	I did not fully understand this topic when discussing it in class.
ID088	I find this concept to understand. This is because I do not understand how there are problems during the 5' to 3' replication. I have not given myself enough time to look at this concept in the book and online to fully understand. I know that the telomeres create the problem. But, I am trying to figure out exactly why.
ID028	This is hard to understand because I feel like there is a lot I don't know about it such as the mechanism that it goes through to allow the DNA to unravel from the nucleosomes.
ID086	This topic is a little harder for me to remember about because it is one of the more obscure ones.
ID021	This was easily the most complex topic of the 4. The couple of slides from the lecture presentation do not provide much information at all on telomeres, the problem it presents, or the function of the enzyme. The lecture only provided a brief explanation of how the enzyme solves the problem, of which I am still not sure.
ID038	Why is euchromatin less coiled as compared to heterochromatin. Since they are both composed of similar chemicals, why is there such a structural difference in the two.
ID123	This concept is the most challenging concept because I don't understand how a polytene can show the location of a gene.  I know that the polytene can show regions of active genes, but I don't understand how this can identify a gene.  The puffs show region of highly active genes, but I don't understand how that can pinpoint a specific gene.
ID052	I understand that studying the high gene expression frequency of polytene chromosomes in Drosophila may be beneficial in further understand how genes are expressed and where they are located. However, I do not understand the experimental process in which scientists are able to study this. I also don't quite understand what implications may result from studying the high frequency of gene expression of these polytene chromosomes.
ID010	Don't really understand the overall function of these chromosomes. Do they have other functions besides aiding in the identification of gene locations?
ID146	I think this concept has the most material of the four, and while I remember most of the critical information regarding the topic some review of the more subtle points and differences would be beneficial for memory and application in problems
ID130	I am rather behind on all subjects right now.  It has been a rough week in class.
ID044	I think that this topic is the most challenging because it has the most intricate steps.  You have to know the DNA replication restrictions and how DNA replication takes place.  You also have to understand what a telomere is and how it works.  These are strange structures that are more complicated that they seem, meaning that take more time and effort to fully understand.
ID036	The standard structure of and function was a little bit challenging. Euchromatin functions as a gene regulatory proteins. They regulate the RNA polymerase complexes, so that RNA polymerase can  bind  to  DNA sequence. When RNA polymerase binds to DNA sequence transcription process begins. The  functio  of the euchromatin aid in cell survival.
ID062	this is the topic i know least about, and struggle with understading.
ID023	I found replication more challenging because of the key terms and various molecules that I had to remember. I struggled with remembering the various functions and where they came into the replication process. I was constantly having to review in order to continue reading the chapter because I would easily forget what molecule the text was discussing and its function.  I also feel as if this topic was rushed through lecture and we also had fewer clickers on this topic as well.
ID114	I thought that every RNA primer synthesized during replication can be removed and replaced with DNA strands. Wouldn't this alleviate the linear chromosome issue? I don't understand.
ID073	I dont understand why heterochromatin is only characteristic of eukaryotes.  If heterochromatin is responsible in helping cell division, why would it not be present in all organisms because all organisms' cells divide.  I dont understand why prokaryotes would not have heterochromatin seeing that they usually divide more rapidly than eukaryotes.
ID128	I understand that specialized Drosophila chromosomes called polytene chromosomes and lampbrush chromosomes. I understand that these chromosomes have specific shapes that make them different and that they have allowed for the identification of gene location. However, I don't understand how these chromosomes are able to help with that. It's not the purpose of the chromosomes I'm struggling with but the process of how they do it is confusing to me.
ID080	I just don't know the specifics behind the gene location for this certain organism. I just need to research the topic more and I will be fine.
ID132	I understand how we got to know where gene locations are by using the fruit flies but I only know of the red eye and that experiment. I'm not totally sure about all the details so I need to read on it.
ID047	I understand that the DNA is shortening and I have read that telomeres help with this problem so then I am confused id DNA continues to shorten then
ID072	I didn't really understand a lot from this section of the course. The DNA replication was pretty well explained in the book and in class. The Linear chromosomes and specialized Drosophila Chromosome topics I had a hard time grasping the concepts behind them.
ID004	I just could not get what this concept is about. I knew that it had an impact but I did not understand the impact that this concept had.
ID149	I haven't gone to class this week due to four exams in all of my other classes, so I don't know what this is talking about.
ID119	I find this topic the most challenging to understand simply because there are several differences in euchromatin and heterochromatin that one must be knowledgable of. Keeping track of the differences and similarities is what I find difficult to remember when it comes to this specific concept.
ID074	The mechanism behind this idea is confusing to me i dont understand the relationship between RNA primers and the 3' over hang.
ID104	I wasn't aware that we had similar genes when compared to the genes of a fruit fly. I knew that we had similar structures and operations but not similar coding.
ID126	I do not understand this at all I know it has to do something with a poly chromosome.
ID017	I understand this one for the most part, however, I am still having trouble understanding the location signaling of the primes, such as 5' and 3'.
ID144	In prokaryotic cells, there is only one point of origin, replication occurs in two opposing directions at the same time, and takes place in the cell cytoplasm. Eukaryotic cells on the other hand, have multiple points of origin, and use unidirectional replication within the nucleus of the cell. Prokaryotic cells possess one or two types of polymerases, whereas eukaryotes have four or more. Replication also happens at a much faster rate in prokaryotic cells.In addition, eukaryotes also have a distinct process for replicating the telomeres at the ends of their chromosomes. With their circular chromosomes, prokaryotes have no ends to synthesize. Lastly, the short replication in prokaryotes occurs almost continuously, but eukaryotic cells only undergo DNA replication during the S-phase of the cell cycle.
ID110	I plan to further my studies in this subclass. this topic has a lot of nitpick pieces that don't ompletely puzzle together for me quite yet
ID120	This is the most difficult because since they are both DNA they should replicate in the same way.
ID050	I feel as if I need to do more in depth research on my own in order to understand this because I am very confused as to the actual distinct differences between the two.
ID079	I understand the role of a promoter but I do not understand the reactions and sequence of events that take place to allow the promoter to initiate transcription.
ID065	This was hard for me to understand because I do not entirely understand how transcription is regulated. I know it can be influenced by the presence of certain molecules that relate to the requirement of transcription to occur, but I do not know any specific examples of this, so I am having trouble wrapping my head around the concept entirely. I do not entirely understand this concept, but I do have a general understanding of how it happens. I do not know why it happens though.
ID035	I have a hard time understanding this topic since it is so broad, i have a hard time explaining and finding details to help.
ID015	The process of transcription is easy to get confused because it has many complicated steps that are involved in the process.
ID027	The concept of what a promotor is and how it exactly functions is still unclear. I believe it could be covered better in lecture. How it works was covered well, but not exactly what it is.
ID024	I had a little trouble understanding how the bases became a protein, but I now understand that they are transformed into amino acids that are connected to become a protein. All of this happens in the ribosome and is very important to how cells function.
ID094	I don't know many ways that the 2 processes differ other than a few basics and I would like to learn about the differences in further detail. It can be kind of tough to picture the differences when they occur on such a small scale that seems very foriegn.
ID068	It is hard to understand how a promoter region (the CAT box and TATA box) is distinguished from any other sequence that occurs in this same pattern.
ID131	I believe I know less about transcription in prokaryotes because it is not covered as much. I struggle to see how the formation of mRNA differs other than the directionality of the decoding.
ID064	It isn't that this concept is difficult to understand, but there are many pieces to understand and many details that are sometimes hard to get straight (ex: remembering that the Shine-Delgarno sequence is associated with prokaryotes)
ID109	I rated myself lower on "Transcription in eukaryotes differs in fundamental ways from transcription in prokaryotes" because it was a little difficult for me to understand by the way it was described in lecture. I didn't not catch the differences, so I just need more examples. I know that it is different, but how different?
ID103	I would say this is was the most difficult because of the complex interactions involved and the number of transcription factors in eukaryotes.
ID020	The most challenging thing for me to understand is the whole process of transcription. I find that it's difficult to keep every step in mind when thinking of the whole process. I feel like I get confused on what happens first and next then next in the whole process.
ID014	I am still somewhat confused as to why there is a significant difference between the transcription in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes. I do not understand why the process takes place at different times and locations in the cell.
ID039	It was harder for me to grasp this and still a little confusing. I get confused on the different promoters and things in inolved for eukaryotic transcription. It is just a lot of information to digest.
ID082	I understand that in this course we have mainly looked at just the TATA box as the promoter, but Im confused as to why conceptually a promoter is necessary for transcription. I dont understand how these promoter regions can really regulate transcription since they are always present in the DNA sequences. Im confused because it seems like if it was regulating a process in the cell, it would have to sometimes be present and sometimes not be, or sometimes promote transcription or sometimes shut it down. I dont understand how this consistent sequence could be a true mechanism of regulation.
ID013	I find this topic the most challenging because there are several different terms of factors and sequences that differ between prokaryotes and eukaryotes. For example, only the prokaryotes have the Shine Delgarno sequence that allows it to bind to the ribosomes.
ID070	I do not know how the genetic code and rosetta stone correlate with each other and translates between mRNA and proteins, 3 bases at a time
ID151	This section took the longest time to learn because of the complexity associated with each step of transcription and especially since I am learning about the similarities and differences between eukaryotes and prokaryotes. However, once I sat down and learnt and reviewed the information, I was able to learn the material.
ID098	I do not really understand the difference between the promoter and an enhancer, so I need to look into that more.
ID030	This is the most difficult topic for me to understand. To be honest, its not a topic which I find very interesting compared to the other. Additionally, understanding this topic requires a large amount of memorization.
ID105	I understand all these topics fairly well. However, I don't feel like this particular topic was covered very clearly. Some of the differences were well covered but then others were not clearly stated to be actual differences between eukaryotes and prokaryotes.
ID077	I am still a little confused on all the differences in transcription in eukaryotes vs. prokaryotes. I feel like there are even more factors that weren't touched on in the book specifically but I could be wrong.
ID046	I find this the most difficult because its the newest concept of these to me. There is ablot of information too.
ID037	This was the hardest for me to learn because going from dna to rna was confusing for me. I think it was the concept of 5' and 3' that made this difficult.
ID026	I found this topic the most challenging to understand because it is essentially the same process, but it just happens differently depending on what type of cell it is. I think that it can be confusing because the same thing is being done, but there are minor differences that make their processes unique. I have a hard time remembering that prokaryotes and eukaryotes transcribe in different ways because they have the same end result.
ID141	It is hard to keep all of the small details organized in my head, there are so many!
ID028	There are so many ways in which the two differ it is sometimes hard to keep track of which one is which.
ID089	Because of all the different names of promoter regions in prokaryotes vs eukaryotes, the analogous structures, the factors the bind, the many differences between the processes, this will be the most difficult to master, simply because of the number of small differences.
ID101	The random facts require memorizing and were not listed clearly anywhere in lecture, nor clearly described in lecture. I have gone back and looked it up my self.
ID083	The central dogma states that genetic information is stored in DNA, copied to messenger RNA during 'transcription' and converted to a protein during 'translation'. Transcriptions starts in the promoter region and proceeds past the gene start and stop codons until RNA polymerase is removed from the DNA strand.
ID069	I have trouble keeping up with all the different factors associated with promoters. I also struggle with differentiating all the different aspects of initiation regarding a promoter for either eukaryotes or prokaryotes.
ID053	The ways in which eukaryotes and prokaryotes differ is sometimes hard to remember because there are about 4 specific ways.
ID061	I am confused about why prokaryotes do not have the same promoters as eukaryotes. I realize eukaryotic transcription is more complex than in prokaryotes but why do prokaryotes not have the same promoter sequences as eukaryotes?
ID056	I understand that transcription of DNA to RNA is regulated by the promoter. I understand the the region is called the TATA box but I just could not find a whole lot more of information about it. I know that eukaryotes have to have transcription factors to locate and bind to it. I just do not think there is a lot of information available specifically about the promoter.
ID075	I am just having a little trouble understanding this because there are so many different enzymes involved in each so I keep getting them mixed up. The slides get a little confusing too. It would be nice if there was a slide blatantly highlighting the differences.
ID058	Of the topics to choose from this is the most challenging one. However, I have a decent understanding of it. I understand that the promoter is the region where transcription initiates and contains proteins that recruit DNA polymerase, but I am unsure of some of the ways in which is is regulated.
ID087	I need to review all of the differences between transcription in eukaryotes and prokaryotes. I understand transcription in prokaryotes fairly well thanks to another class, so I need to review eukaryotes.
ID140	This is the most challenging because I do not have a fully complete concept of why this is so imperative.
ID150	The only thing I don't understand is how the promoter attracts the RNA polymerase to come over and bind. Is it a special chemical environment?
ID055	I had a hard time with this topic because it was straight to the point and I was unsure of what other information you were wanting.
ID118	I am having hard time understanding the differences as Transcription and translation processes in eukaryotes and in prokaryotes are very similar in the transcription process and they only vary in some ways which makes it hard to distinguish.
ID008	Without promoters is transcription disabled or stopped? How are they treated if they fail to regulate transcription.
ID104	It was a little weird how eukaryotes were able to undergo transcription without the need of a promoter sequence; all they needed was a single 3 base codon to start the whole process
ID092	This was the most challenging concept for me because I have spent the least amount of time trying to grasp the concept compared to the other material.  I do understand the general idea that this is the location that transcription begins however.
ID081	I understand that transcription involves regulation by a promoter. This promoter is AUG. However, the TATA box is also present. I'm not sure how these two occur or their processes in relation to each other.
ID095	Both of these individual types of cells are complex in their own ways.  There is so much to learn about one type of transcription, and in this world we are given two.
ID063	I need to get a better understanding of this process. I know the basics for a prokaryote like how the promoter is recognized by a sigma factor. And how this set is on the TATA box. I need to go back through the slides and chapter to master this topic. I need to really just sit down and put all the puzzle pieces together.
ID052	One thing I still don't completely understand is how eukaryotic transcription is terminated. I know that prokaryotes either form a hairpin due or uses a rho protein to terminate transcription.
ID031	This is hard because there are many enzymes that are different so it is hard to memorize what does what.
ID115	The process of transcription in detail is still a little difficult for me to understand, mostly because the textbook does not have a good way of visualizing the process.
ID044	I think this is the most difficult topic to understand because the promoter region is different from the other topics.  It has a strange name and is only present in eukaryotes.  It also plays a large role in regulation of transcription, which can be difficult to understand.
ID121	the different important fragments such as TATA box or promoter sequence confuse me as in what they do and where they are on a DNA sequence
ID090	I believe that I understand this concept now, but it would have been very helpful if we were given a chart or summary of all of the differences. When we went over this in lecture, it was rather vague what the differences were and I had to piece a good deal of it together on my own.
ID143	I think that this topic is difficult to understand because the genetic code is incredibly complex.  There are so many varying combinations of codons that can be created among organisms, and it is difficult to understand how researchers determined which bases are stop/start codons and which bases are translated into proteins.  It is also difficult to understand how the cell operates to convert mRNA to proteins through various types of RNA polymerases in different areas of the cell.
ID129	I dont understand if this is talking about transcription factors or something else.
ID091	I found it difficult to keep the differences straight at first. I found making a chart helped me understand the differences very well.
ID133	Although I believe I now have a good understanding of all of these topics, the one I struggles the most with was the one about the promoter.  For me it was hard to understand what exactly the promoter was.  Was it a region, was it a new molecule that came in to bind with the DNA, or something else entirely?
ID088	I found this concept the most challenging to understand because there are many differences between the two types of transcription of prokaryotes and eukaryotes. This was difficult to understand because it was challenging to keep straight which difference belonged to which type of cell.
ID093	I need to review the exact differences of transcription and translation in eukaryotes. Including sigma factors, and how the mRNA leaves the nucleus. I am mostly familiar with prokaryotic genetics.
ID033	there are alot of transcription factors that are regulated.
ID002	I found this was the hardest to master in that its just a broad topic. It has alot of different parts. The genetic code is somewhat confusing and there is a lot to remember
ID016	The entire concepts of gene regulation are quite confusing. I suppose the biggest hindrance in learning gene regulation is first telling us what the big picture is before throwing all the small details involved in regulation.Also, I feel that you should emphasize the importance of terminology (upstream, downstream) before all the small details.
ID023	I had a difficult time understanding transcription as a whole. I think that the various locations within the DNA that correlated to items such as the TATA box and the promoter region threw me off and I did not really have time to find resources that could help me understand this topic given how many chapters we were assigned in such a short period of time. I believe that if I had more time to comprehend the material then I would have been able to understand it better because I would not have been in a time crunch.
ID117	I'm not very familiar with Rosetta stone, so I don't completely understand the metaphor completely.
ID124	I struggle with this topic because it is so much information to remember and the answers are so similar but the opposite for the two cases.
ID127	I do not understand the complexity of the promoter region. However I do know that this is where transcription is initiated and where RNA polymerase binds.
ID057	This concept is hard for me to understand how this relates to rosetta stone. I do understand however that there a three bases that code for an amino acid which many amino acids create a polypeptide chain.
ID114	I understand that many eukaryotic mRNAs, but not bacterial mRNAs, contain introns.I don't fully understand how these sequences are removed during the production of mature mRNA.
ID147	Eukaryotes are much more regulated than prokayotes, but i couldn't understand if there is more regulation in prokaryotes other than the promoter. IF the promoter is the only regulation that seems like an ineffective way to regulate transcription
ID040	Sometimes it was confusing to me to pick out what the promoter actually was. After reading the book and looking back over my notes, I was able to get a clear picture of what works as the promoter and what the other elements I was confused with do.
ID128	After studying the chapter, I understand that transcription differs fundamentally between eukaryotes and prokaryotes in multiple ways. However, the portion I have had trouble understanding is how the two types of cells developed different methods of translation when the endosymbiotic theory suggests that eukaryotic cells stemmed from prokaryotic cells which seems to me like they would have the same process of making proteins from genetic material.
ID078	This is all pretty straight forward because it was covered well in BIO 162, as well as several other classes such as CBE 235
ID123	I understand that the promoter regulated the transcription of a gene, but I do not know what composes a promoter.  This is the most challenging part of the promoter because I do not know what makes up this part of the gene.  I know that it allows the binding of many factors to allow transcription.
ID011	I feel as though I only understand the basics behind promoters and transcription.  I do not know what else a promoter does beside allow the RNA polymerase to attach and start transcription.
ID134	The easiest way to learn this is to make a camparison table, which i have not done yet. It is hard to understand the why behind the differences or remember the many differences
ID111	I struggle the most with this one because I have a hard time applying it to the real world and application problems. I can tell you differences on a surface level but seem to get confused when putting it in real life terms and scenarios. I understand definitions and things of that nature about the topic but I really struggle when it comes to the application part.
ID102	I found them all to be equally challenging. Each concept sort of speaks for itself and informs you about it prior to further knowledge or research of the concept. They were all pretty much easy to understand after getting a bit of information about them.
ID144	Promoters represent critical elements that can work in concert with other regulatory regions (enhancers, silencers, boundary elements/insulators) to direct the level of transcription of a given gene.
ID006	I don't get it. Does the mRNA move along the ribosome which stays still or does the ribosome move along the mRNA which stays still, and decodes it?
ID145	I believe I missed this day of class and I have had not had a chance to go over this material.  I do not know the difference between the two other than that eukaryotic transcription is more complex.
ID085	This is the most challenging of all these easy concepts simply because the question was badly worded. Transcription is regulated by the promoter REGION. There is no simple "promoter." For students taking a 200-level biology course, this question could have been worded much more helpfully. However, I understand very well how transcription can only begin at a promoter region, nowhere else.
ID100	This concept posed some challenges to me because it forced me to keep a lot differing of information straight. It was easy to mix up the characteristics of both types of transcription. I feel as though I have an understanding of the differences now. I didn't understand the significance of the cis-acting DNA sequences and trans-acting protein factors involved in initiation eukaryotic transcription for the longest time.
ID146	This is the most specific of these concepts and I feel decently comfortable discussing how it affects transcription and regulation, but may need to review the specifics before the exam regarding participating factors, basepair length, etc.
ID036	he central dogma was proposed by Frances Crick (of Watson and Crick, 1958) who also suggested that proteins could not transmit information backwards to RNA. At the time it was a contentious statement and was misapplied by scientists at the time.
ID059	The genetic code is what I ranked the lowest because I did not understand why they chose the term "Reosetta stone that translate". I always referred to the rosetta stone as in the spanish language learning. However I do understand that the genetic code translates the information between mRNA and that mRNA is translated into proteins that makes the body function and run based on the order of information for that specific area or somatic cell.
ID073	I am having difficulty deciphering which way to read the RNA strand from the DNA strand and which end to start on.  I do not understand how to recognize where to start transcription and which strand to make this decision about.  I do not understand the coiling effects of the matching mRNA strand and why it does not occur in both eukaryotes and prokaryotes.
ID048	I do not understand in detail.
ID017	I would say this is the most challenging topic just do to its complexity on the topic of how the genetic code really predics and determines the translation of DNA or RNA.
ID107	I understand the concept of a promoter sequence like the TATA box. I don't understand how these sequences regulate transcription, however, because they are always present in the DNA. How does the RNA polymerase know which promoter is active or not?
ID038	I have been working in a lab for 3 years almost and I have already read about these topics in extreme details. Thus I do understand all of this topics clearly.
ID132	This section is a little bit challenging for me, I do know the differences between the 2 but I would like a better understanding of it more.
ID080	I struggled with this topic the most just due to the fact that it is very specific in its function and structure.
ID072	Just a decent size of information on this concept.
ID047	This was only difficult because it was hard to remember which aspects belonged to which one and what characteristics were shared.
ID139	I think all four of these ideas are pretty straightforward. I also coveredall of these topics in previous biology courses so none of them were foreign to me.
ID034	the complex of how DNA is translated to protein start with the transfer of genetic information stored in DNA to RNA. the process by which RNA molecules are synthesized in a DNA template is called transcription
ID009	Most of these are pretty straight forward but I guess breaking down the differences between the two and understanding why was the most challenging from this list.
ID113	I understand that transcription requires a lot more in eukaryotes, but I don't understand the full process of transcription in prokaryotes.
ID021	It is easy to understand why there are differences (environment, cell structure, complexity, DNA structure) but difficult to remember every single difference that results. The terminology was new for a lot of concepts and it was hard to visualize and keep the differences separated. I am still unsure if the DNA polymerases I,II, III etc are applicable to eukaryotes and prokaryotes, or if they are only for prokaryotes and alpha, beta, sigma are for eukaryotes only.
ID110	it is not that it is difficult to understand rather than that it is more complex than the 3 other choices.. I have actually not had much trouble understanding these concepts
ID120	This is not difficult, but I would like to understand why codons are in triplets rather than any other number.
ID065	The hardest part of understanding this for me lies in the exceptions. If there are so many exceptions, such as sickle cell anemia, why is this still considered a genuine biologica concept worth studying? I fell like this is more common sense than anything given the scope and limitations of the hypothesis. The fact that there are so many exceptions gives me a kind of mental block that makes me feel like its more of an occasional presumption that is not very well supported. All these factors regarding the exceptions is why I find this hypothesis so hard to entirely understand.
ID109	I do not understand why we are studying the one gene one enzyme hypothesis if it is partially incorrect. I do not understand the significance of studying this topic. Maybe I don't understand it well enough, but I'll ask Dr. Hughes about it next week. Why would be studying something that isn't 100% correct?
ID143	Attempting to understand sickle cell anemia and how the disease is relevant to the one gene-one enzyme hypothesis was difficult because the gene codes for a polypeptide instead of another type of molecule.  It is also difficult to understand how multiple genes can code for the same metabolic pathway within a cell.
ID030	This is the most challenging concept for me to understand. I know that this theory was reached by testing metabolic pathways. Researchers removed specific proteins by mutating genes to see how it would affect the metabolic pathway of an organism. I do need to more details however. I am unsure how this lead to the realization that one gene coded for a polypeptide instead of an enzyme.
ID014	I really do not understand how it was determined that there was just one amino acid change to cause the sickle cell to look so differently from the normal cell.
ID070	All these topics or concepts are pretty self explanatory and easy to understand.
ID000	I think they will find the fluctuation test the most confusing
ID037	This concept was hard for me to learn because I had always assumed that mutations were not random. It was hard to relearn this. Mutations are random and could benefit or hurt an organism. If the mutations happens to be beneficial it he organism is more likely to survive and pass on the mutation.
ID061	I am a little confused as to how mutations cannot arise based off an organism's needs. I feel that it would be beneficial to organisms to have the ability to induce mutations based off need. I realize that they cannot do this, but I would think that would be helpful to an organism;s survival.
ID024	I do not quite understand his proposition. I understand that there are genetic disorders that are caused by an error in the genetic code, but I do not know much after that.
ID136	This is the most challenging for me because I did not read about it.
ID013	I find this topic most challenging because the process of getting results in this experiment with Neurospora is tricky. The understanding of the different mediums and how they are used to determine the order of a metabolic pathway is challenging.
ID021	Not being able to read much about this concept in the book prevented me from reviewing well its basic tenants. Also, the flow chart of phenylketonuria was more complex than what was needed to understand to answer the question on the exam.
ID033	We haven't really discussed this well in class.
ID131	I do not completely understand the differences. It was not given a large amount of time in class, and I have not discussed with other students yet, but I struggle to see how the one-gene-one enzyme principle fails to cover the dogma of this disorder, sickle cell anemia.
ID082	This topic is the most difficult for me to understand because it seems so broad. Like many topics in the past, it is the most difficult for me to feel confident in my ability to explain, work with, and expand upon the broad topics because I am unsure of the boundaries set forth in class.
ID026	I found this topic the most difficult to understand because I understand what sickle cell anemia is and what causes it, but I am not entirely sure how it relates to the one gene one enzyme hypothesis being incorrect. I have an idea of how it is involved, but I do not know exactly why it disproves the theory. I had trouble understanding how sickle cell anemia shows that one gene does not mean there is one enzyme. How does sickle cell anemia conflict with the one gene one enzyme theory?
ID029	I was not completely familiar with what the mutation in hemoglobin does to cause sickle cell anemia.
ID116	I have found this concept to be the hardest to understand. I was confused about how it was presented in lecture. I was wondering if there could be more of a visual representation of this so I can see it.
ID079	I do not understand the experiment performed by Beadle and Edward with Neurospora and metabolic pathways.
ID022	i dont get the point that just because citrulline was not able to convert to arganine they concluded that one enzyme one gene. what if there are many other genes that are coding for the same argenine but the amount of argenin needed for body to function is not met. Also, what if there are many other genes in the body as well and all of them got mutated. So how can they  prove that there is just one gene and not 2 or 3 genes but all of them are mutated.
ID040	Although the idea is straightforward, it is easy to get confused and believe that mutations may arise to allow an organism to better survive certain conditions when in reality, all mutations are random and it is entirely up to chance whether the mutations will be beneficial or harmful.
ID044	This was the most challenging topic because it uses strange terms and weird language to describe a concept we all know ever well, inherited genetic disorders. It was then a little difficult to understand what he meant by the errors effecting metabolism.
ID103	Although I understood the concept fairly well, understanding the mechanism of action was a little more of a struggle.
ID101	This concept was at first confusing because at first it was explained that it was completely random, and only later was it clarified that the environment could have an effect on the organism, and this was with regards to the organism.
ID091	It took some time to analyze his experiment and see clearly how he derived his hypothesis. Once done, it became clear that a unique enzyme was missing from each mutant.
ID081	I understand that inborn errors in metabolism cause problems in metabolic pathways in individuals. However, I do not understand how they come about or why they come about.
ID031	This is tough because you have to know how he came to this conclusion.
ID105	I do not fully understand this concept yet I was confused when she talked about it in lecture.
ID023	I think that I had difficulties understanding sickle cell anemia simply because I feel like the concept is complicated. I understand the overall concept (a single base deletion can cause a frame shift mutation that in turn causes the blood cell to misfold and cause a sickling shape that causes severe anemia and possibly death. However, I do not remember the specifics on this concept or exactly where the deletion occurs. I believe that this concept gets lost within the chapter and thus I had difficulties understanding it.
ID150	I don't know the experiments that led to his hypothesis. Knowing how the theory came around is very important to understanding the concept.
ID147	At first is did not really understand exactly what was meant by the pathways of metabolism and other processes that this concept was trying to explain, however after reveiwing the other material i understood it better.
ID113	I don't completely understand how it actually proves that the hypothesis is not quite correct
ID134	This concept was not covered much in class, but it is also complex. The genetics of gene control is hard to fully understand because it encompasses so many possibilities
ID035	This concept was a little hard to understand since the idea was very broad and general
ID087	I find this the concept the most challenging. I don't understand the Beadle experiment fully or how sickle cell anemia disproves his theory.
ID118	I don't understand this concept really well as it's should be one gene-one protein as enzymes are one type of proteins, but the gene alternation impacts the function of the protein and the structure of the protein. One gene-one enzyme hypothesis was twitched around and made one gene-one polypeptide chain hypothesis as thats what makes up the protein.
ID140	I need to gain a further understanding of what is meant by 'needs' and from which standpoint this argument is coming from (completely genetic, behavioral, fitness, etc).
ID124	I understand that he did experiments but for some reason they are hard for me to follow and completely understand what was happening.
ID133	I think this topic was kind of confusing because we also talked about induced mutations, which made me think that mutation can be controlled.
ID083	While the rate of mutation can increase or decrease, mutation itself is random and does not occur in response to 'need'. Rather, mutation occurs and specific mutations may be selected for in a population if they are adaptive (provide a reproductive advantage)
ID098	I just think the other three topics are very straight forward and clear. They are relatively simple, while Gerard and his inborn errors of metabolism is a very broad, complicated topic. There is more room to not fully understand everything, because the topic itself is just much more broad.
ID089	I either do not understand the concept, or it is actually as insignificant as it seems on the outside. It seems as though inborn errors of metabolism are simply what we refer to today as genetic disorders. If there is anything more significant than this at work, I have missed it.
ID095	I still need more review on the structure of the hemoglobin.  I feel I have a basic understanding of  the one gene - one enzyme basis, however protein structure is an advanced subject for me.  I need to understand how these polypeptide chains combine to form proteins.
ID056	I understand how the information that mutation is random was brought forth, however I am confused because I thought we learned that UV rays can alter the gene sequence. I thought environmental factors can cause mutations.
ID111	I find this to be the most challenging because I don't fully understand why this experiment was proved to be untrue just because another experiment happened with the sickle cell anemia. I understand the differences in the studies, but I don't fully understand how the sickle cell one disproves Beadle's work because it was believed to be true at that time and the evidence supported it. I'm just confused on how to separate the two.
ID077	I am still a little confused on how mutation is random relative to an organisms needs because i thought mutation was completely random.
ID090	This topic is not as clear to me as I am unsure as to whether mutations are acquired as according to 'need'. I had always thought that mutations were random in occurrence, and then selected either for or against. I could use further clarification on this topic.
ID020	I find it challenging to understand how Beadle came to the conclusion of the one gene-one enzyme hypothesis. I don't quite understand what the hypothesis is actually saying and why it was changed to the one-gene:one-polypeptide chain hypothesis.
ID027	Separating his research from Beadle's research is the only tricky part. I do not believe any of these concepts are difficult to understand, but if you are reading this and my explanations on the previous slides are wrong then you will have a better idea of what I don't understand than I do.
ID058	I understand that mutation is completely random and some of the different types of mutations, but am not sure if there is more to the concept then just that they are random and are not under the control of the organism.
ID141	I understand all of the concepts to the left with the third one being most challenging for me, due to the depth of the topic of sickle cell anemia.
ID108	I understand that mutations are not selected  for based on needs but I am not sure when it becomes an organism's need versus a reproductive advantage.
ID063	This topic is troubling. I understand the basics but need help with understanding why this is a relevant topic. I ignored it in my first read through but I guess ill have to go back over it all.
ID127	I need to read more into this study by Gerard because I do not remember it very well. I only know that he discovered the inherited metabolism disorder alkaptonoria.
ID123	This is the most challenging topic to for me to understand because I understand that the genetic basis for sickle cell anemia disproves the one gene one enzyme hypothesis, but I don't understand how it changes the hypothesis.  I know that due to the change in the polypeptide at one location the theory is disproven, but I don't understand how this leads to the one gene one protein hypothesis.  The mechanism by which this occurs is not clear to me.
ID080	This is the most difficult concept based on the pure amount of different metabolic disorders there are. Also because of the amount of differences between mitochondria DNA and DNA found in eukaryotes.
ID151	This topic was harder to grasp since I was unable to find much information about Archibald Gerard. I understand the conclusion that he created well, it is just that I do not know his experiment that was conducted to arrive at such a conclusion.
ID092	I found the most challenges learning this concept because I have not spent enough time trying to fully understand it.  I am unsure about the exact errors that occur in the mitochondria, also I am unsure about which genes are responsible for these errors.
ID088	I find this concept the most challenging. This is because it took me a long time to read about sickle cell anemia and see how HbS and HbA differ by a single peptide fragment. Also, I had to look and see how each one affected hemoglobin.
ID145	The wording of why mutations are random is confusing.  I understand that mutations are random and that needs do not affect the rate of mutations, but the wording can still trip me up sometimes.
ID069	I feel that this topic was not thoroughly covered. Though I have read all the chapters relating to mutation, I am still confused as to how mutation and an organism's needs do or do not relate.
ID002	I found this one the hardest to understand in that the genes that controlled inborn errors of metabolism. These errors in metabolism mean that certain physiological processes and substances needed for everyday functions are not created
ID016	I feel this concept is hard to understand because I am not quite sure what his original hypothesis was. I know that he said that one gene codes for one enzyme, but I am not understanding why he chose enzyme instead of polypeptide, or what the basis of his experiment was.
ID053	It is just hard for me to fully grasp the concept of mutation being completely random yet help species survive.
ID017	I understand this the least because I truly do not understand what the question is referring to, therefore signaling to me that  I need to catch up on my reading.
ID008	I understand these thoroughly
ID078	I understand the premise of the experiment, but i feel as if the book doesn't go into enough depth as to how they reached their conclusion and it wasn't deeply covered in lecture either.
ID038	I understand all these concepts exceptionally. I have been working in a lab for 3 years now and I have read scientific literature related to this topics.
ID068	I do not fully understand his work in studying the "inborn errors of metabolism"
ID028	This area is still a bit fuzzy to me because it is hard to determine the actual difference between the one gene one enzyme and the one gene one polypeptide chain hypotheses.
ID059	I rated this concept the lowest because I did not understand how one- gene one enzyme could have an overall effect on metabolism or even other bodily functions. After this hypothesis was proven incorrect, I had a better understanding of how DNA and peptide could have serve effects, which lead to me to questioning my overall understanding of the direct correlation of genes and enzymes relationship to body functions.
ID039	The part of this that i had trouble witg was the phenylalanine chart.This was hard to grasp at first because I found it odd that at each step of the chart shown in lecture that one change or inactive compound at one step could cause a different disease or condition than another inactive molecule at a different step. I thought that because it was in the same overall process it would result in the same disease. So at first it was hard for me to really understand, but after going over it in the book and re looking at the lecture slides I have a better understanding as to why.
ID048	I do not understand this is details.
ID075	I am having great difficulty understanding this concept because the notes are not very clear on this. She did not go over it in lecture in great detail and even the book is a little hazy about it.
ID064	Mutation is linked to evolution, and organisms do not evolve to suit their environment by being mutants, what happens in evolution is organisms with favorable mutations prosper.
ID050	I still do not fully understand the concept nor why it is important in class. I think it was covered to briefly in class and the explanation in the book is too vague.
ID137	This is interesting because although the one-gene-one hypothesis is "not quite correct," the new information about limited differences in polypeptide chains also have exceptions. I gave myself a three because even though I understand how they came about finding the new information, I was still slightly confused on why they weren't the same.
ID057	I don't really understand this concept. I thought that mutation was random. I don't understand how it could be relative to an organism's needs unless by random the mutation is of use to that organism and the mutations is passed on to future generations. The wording of this is confusing to me.
ID114	I understand the genetic basis of sickle cell anemia and why it occurs and what it does; however, I am not super comfortable with the relationship of sickle cell anemia to the one-gene-one-enzyme hypothesis.
ID100	I was confused on this topic until I read the book and learned about the different reasons why the one gene-one enzyme hypothesis was wrong. Genes ultimitely code for proteins. While many proteins are enzymes, many are not. So the conclusion that every gene codes for one enzymes is therefore inaccurate.
ID146	This concept/experiment was unfamiliar to me and I will simply have to review the process and conclusions from the experiment before the exam to make sure I follow why each action was taken in the experiment and what could be gained from it.
ID117	I have a strong understanding about mutations, however the wording of this concept was confusing to me because it implies that mutations aren't random and specifically encouraged by an organism's needs, which is false.
ID073	I dont understand how the mutation is random compared to the organisms needs.  I would think that mutations occur for an organism to be better adapted to the envrionment and to advance themselves genetically.
ID085	I am confused about this because of a quiz question I had, causing me to only get a 4/5, which hurts a lot because Dr. Hughes will not even consider dropping one out of 20 quizzes. The question asked if two individuals with albinism could have a normal child, also mentioning that albinism is a recessive trait. Well, if it's recessive, they must be homozygous recessive for the trait to be expressed in each of them, meaning that the child will also be homozygous recessive? Therefore, the child's enzymes will be non-functional at that point in the metabolic pathway, meaning that he/she will also be albino. However, the quiz (mistakenly?) claims that two recessive albino individuals can have a normal child. I do not understand this at all.
ID128	I struggled the most with this topic because I feel like we didn't touch on it at all in class and weren't tested on it and the only time I have learned anything about it was for this survey. To me, that seems to eliminate the point of the survey if I have to go read the chapter just to complete it when it should be assessing what I learn throughout this course. We also haven't even remotely touched on any of these topics in discussion which is frustrating to me because the discussion should be improving our understanding of the course material instead of being a different course entirely. So to sum up, the reason I found this topic difficult was the his name is spelled Garrod in the textbook so I had trouble even finding this topic, I couldn't find the year 1923 mentioned anywhere in chapter 14, and finally Dr. Hughes didn't teach on this topic so essentially I learned it entirely on my own for the purpose of this survey a week after we have already taken the test on this chapter so essentially for no reason at all.
ID086	Multiple genes are accountable for the problems behind sickle cell anemia. Its difficult to understand this because many times getting all of the genes mixed up is very easy to do.
ID072	Didn't really look into this topic as much as the others.
ID047	I find it hard to understand what Gerard discovered because I m not sure on how he went about his research, I also find trouble understanding what "inborn errors" exactly means
ID138	I did not see this topic in the power points we went over this past week. I could have missed it, but I think that is probably the biggest obstacle I have in my understanding of it.
ID036	Mutation is random, and it is not triggered by a response. the rate of mutation can either increase or decrease, but selective mutations may be more advantage than ot9er. For example sickle cll hemogloblins are more advantage in countries where malaria is prevalent.
ID084	I have had a difficult time understanding exactly how inborn errors of metabolism arise. I know they are caused by the inability of an individual to metabolize some enzyme or protein.
ID119	This is the most challenging concept for me to understand personally because I do not know what about the genetic basis of sickle cell anemia caused the one gene-one enzyme hypothesis to not be entirely correct. I understand that the genetic basis demonstrated that the hypothesis was not completely true, but I do not know the specifics on this idea.
ID104	The idea of mutations being completely random is just different from what makes sense to me. I originally thought that mutations were less random and more influenced by environmental changes
ID107	I am still very confused on this topic. I know mutations are random and do not arise from environmental changes, but I don't understand how they can be a process of evolution if they are not a response to environmental stressors to make the organism more fit.
ID126	I I do not understand this on a broader scale. I understand that there can be a gene that has a relationship with more than one enzyme. I found it challenging to learn this because it does have a finite relationship.
ID130	This topic is not well covered in class
ID110	the interaction between a single amino acid alteration and its effect on an organisms genome and its disproval of one gene one enzyme is still a bit blurry, I understand the general idea, but I do not really see it conceptually
ID074	i 'dont really understand how the two relate exactly
ID046	I find the sickle cell anemia concept to be important because it shows the ever changing aspect of science to better improve itself as well as show how minuscule a change can be yet still have significant results.
ID052	Mutations are random and occur relative to an organism's needs. However, I don't understand how mutation is not strongly influenced by environmental factors.
ID120	This difficult to understand because mutations are not random to organism's needs. The mutations are usually harmful.
ID094	It is hard to imagine the process of this complex working on a molecular level without having seen an animation or something similar.
ID095	There are many mechanisms in eukaryotic gene expression.  I will have to go over all of these mechanisms, and learn these concepts.
ID099	fairly simple concept but I worry I am missing some depth in the regulatory functions that surround it
ID046	I find this the most challenging due to its chemical aspects that I find difficult to comprehend.
ID056	There is not that much information in the notes and the book on this specific mutant. I understand what the mutant does, it was just more difficult to find extended information on this than the other topics presented.
ID036	Prokaryotic organisms are single-celled organisms that lack a defined nucleus; therefore, their DNA floats freely within the cell cytoplasm. To synthesize a protein, the processes of transcription (DNA to RNA) and translation (RNA to protein) occur almost simultaneously. When the resulting protein is no longer needed, transcription stops.
ID026	I found this topic the most challenging to understand because I am not positive on what the mutation does in particular, I just know that it affects the nucleosomes. I would like to know more about exactly what the mutation is and how it causes nucleosome repositioning to not occur as often.
ID109	I am confused why attenuation is a mechanism of terminating unneeded transcripts in prokaryotes. I understand that it is because regulation of some operons in E. coli are leaky and a second system called attenuation evolved. However, after that point I am confused. I read the steps over and over and it still doesn't click. I am really confused about what happens when sufficient or insufficient gene product is available. What's the difference between the two?
ID059	I rated this concept the lowest because I did not quite understand the concept of how the swi-snf mutant in eukaryotes occur as a deficiency due to the replacement of nucleosome repositiong. I understand that if nucleosome, DNA sequences, etc are replaced, deleted, or even rearranged, there can be problems within the genome and overall functioning of the body. However, I did not understand eactly what the swi-snf mutant does in the eukaryotic cell functioning.
ID039	I found the concept about the swi-snf mutant to be difficult at first. I didn't really understand the diagram shown on the slide that illustrated how swi-snf blocks one of the key components. The diagram was confusing because it was a lot going on in the picture and not really much of an explanation of the steps or what was occurring.
ID082	This concept is the most confusing to me because it seems the most broad and I am unsure if I fully understand this concepts to the extent that this course requires. I find that the most broad topics are the hardest to feel like I truly command because I never really know the clear boundaries of what knowledge is required for this particular course.
ID000	I would guess attenuation
ID052	I know what the swi/snf gene does, however I am not quite sure about the implications of observing deficient histone-regulating gene mutations. I'm not sure how the swi/snf gene works in conjunction with other transcriptional factors that are important in histone modifications.
ID027	I do not even really understand what this is (as I've stated). It was only covered very briefly in class, and I believe it could be explained better.
ID085	This topic was hardest to understand because of how many new topics it introduced. However, I was able to teach myself this topic, just like I have had to for every topic I struggled to understand.
ID101	This was not really taught in depth in class, so it required the most effort.
ID144	Not really sure but for some reason this concept was hard for me to understand at first. It was difficult understanding the process of nucleosome repositioning.
ID077	I am still a little confused on how the attenuation completely stops the transcription. I feel like another ribosome could come in at some point and skip the attenuator.
ID061	I am a little confused by the important of the SWI-SNF gene. If it is mutated, why couldn't another form of nucelosome repositioning and chromatin remodeling serve to make up for this? As long as something is working to make the genes accessible for transcription, isn't that enough for the cell to function properly?
ID118	I don't understand how complexity in the eukaryotes gene regulation gave rise to the complexity of eukaryotes leading to such complex organisms such as homo sapiens from a single cell bacteria. This is very astonishing to know that gene regulation plays a huge role on what organism's phenotype and differences between eukaryotes and prokaryotes.
ID105	I don't fully understand this concept yet. I did't understand this concept in lecture.
ID134	because SWI-SNF usually aid in nucleosome repositioning it is hard to consider a specific eukaryote where this isn't the case.
ID058	Attenuation can be seen in the trp operon in prokaryotes. I understand that the speed of the ribosome determines if regions 2 and 3 can bind or 3 and 4. 2 and 3 make sure that termination doesn't occur and 3 and 4 pairing causes termination. I am unsure of what affects the speed of the ribosome and  the function of 1 and 2 pairing.
ID111	I understand how the complex work and the different ways in which chromatin remodelers alter the association of nucelosomes with DNA. I can tell you definitions all day long. I also understand what happens to the eukaryote when this complex is not there or does not work. I am still unsure of how to apply this knowledge into real life scenarios in order to fully understand the concept.
ID065	This was the hardest for me to understand because I do not exactly know what the mutation results in. I understand why the mutation occurs and how these mutations in general can affect various aspects of translation, but I do not understand the biological results of this specific mutation.
ID083	The effects of the change of 1 nucleotide base on transcription: I understand that in deleting a base from a gene sequence that the rest of the gene code will be ruined and by inserting a base back into the code to "fix" it, most of the code will be restored, but a small portion will remain damaged. I also understand that a mutation that inserts an extra base will also alter the code following the mutation, but the removal of the base will restore it back to its original code. I also read the textbook and quizzed myself and feel very confident in my understanding.
ID103	I felt this was the most challenging because when I looked it up online and tried to read about it I was very confused at first.  It seemed like a difficult topic to explain.
ID115	I am confused as to how the mutant has trouble recondensing chromosomes. On the other hand, I understand how it decondenses them, but I might need to consult the textbook to better understand the concept.
ID064	It was hard for me to connect that this was a protein remodeling complex. It was introduced as two genes, and I understood what each gene did, but didn't see the relation of talking about switching and fermentation to then talking about remodeling. Now I think I understand a little better, but it was hard at first to realize these genes were part of a different complex that has a different purpose than the two genes on their own.
ID079	I am still confused with nucleosome positioning/remodeling and the relationship with the swi-snf mutant.
ID014	I did not understand if this complex is found in mostly all eukaryotes or in just some specific species of eukaryotes. Also, I do not understand how it just has an impact on nucleosome repositioning that will effect gene expression.
ID098	I do not understand how these two very different phenotypes are influenced by the same mutation. The ability to switch genders and the ability to ferment sugars appear to be completely unrelated, so it is very strange that a single mutation can impair both phenotypes.
ID022	This is one of the hardest concept for me to grasp in genetics. i dont understand the fact that how does this complex if mutated cannot recogonize the AT rich region in the DNA which can lead to the cause of various lethal disease such as cancer. The mutation would create a product that does not allows for swi-snf to function normally, so there would not be nucleosome remodelling but how is that connected to a person developing disease like cancer in kidney and brain just because there was some problem in some nucleosome remodeling complex. In fact, cancer is caused due to p53 protein or gene content not being able to kill the cell, how is swi-snf complex related to not being able to do apostosis?
ID081	I don't fully understand the process of attenuation or how the needed and unneeded transcripts are determined to know what transcripts are to be terminated.
ID084	I have found this to be the most difficult to understand. It could be because this was just covered the least amount. I do not understand why it is deficient in repositioning along DNA.
ID024	I understand that attenuation terminates unneeded transcripts for prokaryotes, but I do not quite understand how this happens.
ID015	Eukaryotic cells, in contrast, have intracellular organelles that add to their complexity. In eukaryotic cells, the DNA is contained inside the cell's nucleus where it is transcribed into RNA. The newly-synthesized RNA is then transported out of the nucleus into the cytoplasm where ribosomes translate the RNA into protein.
ID018	This wasn't necesarily hard to understand, but it did not stick with me after I left class. I also apparently didn't see it as a major concept because I did not take notes. That may be a mistake on my part.
ID035	I found myself not understanding this idea the hardest and rate myself lower on this than the other topics. This topic was the hardest to understand and find information on as well.
ID040	I had some trouble understanding how the nucleosome repositioning works at first.
ID090	This concept is the most challenging to me as I do not understand how the same mRNA transcript can form two different types of hairpin loops depending on the amount of gene product present.
ID075	The lecture slides were not very clear about this and the book just confused me more. I have tried to search on google too, but some articles go too into detail.
ID108	This mutant concept is just very difficult for me to grasp because I do not understand exactly how it was discovered and why it is so widely used.
ID140	I do not understand what the mutants are or why the nucleosome positioning is important.
ID089	Attenuation is already an inherently difficult process to understand, but combining that with the limited time we spent covering it in class and the small amount of text elaborating on it in the book, I have found it difficult to obtain a satisfactory understanding of the process.
ID116	I found this to be a challenging topic only because I could not find much information on the topic. I couldn't find much information in the book or the notes. Furthermore, I do not have a good handle on what the swi-snf mutant does, therefore I cannot understand the product.
ID023	I did not find this topic challenging, I just did not remember the concept overall. Again, this could have been because of how extensive this chapter was and the amount of information I was required to retain. Overall, I understand the topic; however, when simply given the swi-snf mutant, nothing in particular comes to mind.
ID008	I didn't understand how the cell recognizes which cell is unneeded while transcription is occurring.
ID031	I do not understand why it cannot reoposition nucleosomes.
ID147	For the longest time i could not understand what role the SWI-SNF part of the mutant played, but then i learned that their products relate directly to repositioning and regulation of nucleosomes.
ID072	Felt like this topic was a little different when comprehending than the others.
ID038	I have been performing research on genetic components of conjugation for 3 years now. I understand all of these topics extremely well because i have done experiments that included these topics.
ID060	This mutant has been really complicated to understand.
ID092	I'm Unsure
ID002	I found this to be the more difficult to understand in that I still do not understand it that well. I do not know the mechanism, only what it does.
ID055	I understood this topic the least so it was harder to explain and discuss in this assignment.
ID047	I understand the purpose of swi-snf but I am not sure on how the mutant for saccharomyces specifically affects the eukaryotes as a whole and the severity of it being disfunctional
ID069	I felt like this topic was not explored very deeply. I don't quite understand how a deficiency in the ability to switch mating type or ferment sucrose would effect nucleosome repositioning.
ID093	I need to review the factors involved with transcription in eukaryotes as well as nucleosome positioning.
ID078	(This excludes the swi-snf mutant). I understand what happens and why in attenuation, but there are many different variations on how this happens that it's difficult to say I understand each of those just as well as I understand the other concepts listed. I wouldn't feel comfortable explaining the specific methods to someone else.
ID088	I found this concept the most challenging to understand. This is because it seems backwards to me. It took me a lot of time reading the material to understand that acetylation can de-condense chromatin.
ID007	Of these topics, this one is by far the most expansive and this requires the most work to understand.  There are a lot of areas in which regulation can occur, so it is simply a lot of information.
ID127	Honestly, I do  not remember what this is. I do not remember reading this and I do not know where to find it. This is why I do not understand.
ID107	I understand what the swi'snf chromatin remodeling complex does, but I am confused on the research behind this discovery.
ID049	I understand what a mutant is capable of doing and that this may cause complications but I am not sure how the nucleosome is repositioned  and how that affects the cell
ID011	I do not recall learning this topic in class.  I do not see why normal transcription termination would not be used in replace of this.  I do not understand how it occurs or how it functions.
ID044	This topic has been the most difficult to learn, mainly because it was poorly explained during lecture. the mechanism and reason behind the the swi-snf complex.
ID068	I find it hard to distinguish the difference between SWI and SNF.
ID143	Knowing the general definition for attenuation, which states that the term refers to the reduction in strength of any type of signal, I am able to somewhat understand the genetic meaning of the term.  However, I need to fully understand the process in a sense that I could be capable of explaining the idea to someone else.
ID028	The premise that yeast can switch their mating types is still new to me so I am having some trouble grasping that concept but I understand so far that the mutation affects the remodeling complex so that it cannot make this shift.
ID043	I'm just confused
ID123	The swi-snf mutant is the most challenging concept for me to understand because I do not understand the basis for how the mutation doesn't allow for the chromatin to be remodeled.  I understand that it doesn't let the nucleosomes move around because the DNA cannot loosen from the histones or nucleosomes.  The mechanisms for this is unclear to me.
ID006	The different mutations and what they cause are always difficult for me to remember but I'm sure if i put my mind to it and memorize their function i will be fine.
ID048	It was complex to understand.
ID062	Is a proposed mechanism of control in some bacterial operons which results in premature termination of transcription and which is based on the fact that, in bacteria, transcription and translation proceed simultaneously. Attenuation involves a provisional stop signal (attenuator), located in the DNA segment that corresponds to the leader sequence of mRNA.
ID050	I feel like this was not covered heavily in class and the explanation in the book was very broad and when I tried doing extra research all the information was very limited and confusing.
ID057	I did not find any of these topics particularly too hard to understand. All of these topics are about the same difficulty but not too hard to understand the underlying principles.
ID119	This is just a concept that I am less familiar with, and I have just recently come across this topic this year. I understand the results of this mutation, but I do not fully comprehend the affects that the results will have on the cell and overall organism.
ID137	The concept of operons are not difficult, but it always takes me a second to remember the differences between lac and trp operons and negative and positive systems.
ID117	Attenuation is not something I remember very well, mainly because it was covered before this past week and not very extensively in class that I can recall. However, it is also really spotty for me because the way in which it is explained in the book is rather confusing with the wording.
ID034	the presence of ribosomes in attenuation of the mRNA interfere with the formation of the terminator hairpin, but allows the formation of the antitermiator hairpin within the leader transcript
ID100	Before doing this LSA I wasnt really familiar with the idea of attenuation. In order to complete this LSA though I learned about this topic and feel pretty comfortable with it now. I still don't really understand why trp is causing repression. Basically, the idea of attenuation is that when the trp is present, the operon is repressed, and when trp is absent the operon is active. The book provides a good explanation for why this happens on pages 408-409 that I will need to refer back to when studying.
ID130	This is the hardest concept to understand.  it wasn't covered as directly in class.
ID073	I understand the mechanism and activation of the acetylation and deacetylation but I do not understand how this affects cancer cells differently.  I do not understand why tumor cells would be affected differently than normal cells.
ID120	This is the most challenging for me to understand because i simply have not learned this information. This reflects the importance of studying.
ID150	I have not studied this topic yet, so there is not part of this that I can comment on.
ID029	This was a very complex mechanism when we went over it in class. I am planning on attending office hours to clarify the topic.
ID066	This is a very specific example and it is difficult to remember it in terms of particular organism and a particular mutation.
ID003	I do not remember this topic at all.
ID012	The terms used in this explanation just took so much extra research on finding out exactly what was going on in this process.
ID131	I found this concept the most intriguing and challenging becasue I believe it is very complex and possibly even beyond our capabilities to fully map out the effects of the modification of the nucleosome tails. The epigenome is a wide open field, and I sometime sstruggle to wrap my mind around why the genes encoded by DNA can be affected in so many ways.
ID030	This is a difficult concept for me to grasp. I haven't been to find very good material in the book that covers this topic in depth. Nor have I been able to find this information online. Its challenging to me because I need a source that can lay out to me, step by step, how the sni-snf complex works. I have yet to find this.
ID070	The swi-snf mutant in the eukaryote Saccharomyces is deficient in nucleosome repositioning. I just didnt know too much about it and i have to read more to understand it better
ID091	I found this topic to be the most confusing. It connects multiple things into one topic that can be difficult to understand. RNA polymerase and the ribosome are working at the same time, so it requires analyzing a piece of DNA spatially.
ID063	This is the most challenging topic as I have already mentioned in the previous screen. I did not pay attention in class when Dr Hughes discussed it therefore I am lost with it other than what the book has to say.
ID141	This is the most challenging of the four due to all of the differences between prokaryotes and eukaryotes in terms of gene regulation.  It is hard to remember every little difference between the two!
ID125	Attenuation is a mechanism utilized by bacteria to regulate unnecessary gene expression.
ID013	I find this topic difficult to understand because I do not understand exactly what this complex is responsible for and how it functions in yeast.
ID021	I do not understand this concept. I did not attend lecture this day and the slides were not clear as to how this occurs. I do not understand why transcripts are unneeded and how they are degraded by attenuation.
ID133	I feel like these topics were explained well in class and were easy to understand.
ID020	I found this topic the most difficult because there are many factors that go into gene regulation. It's hard to keep track each factors especially that eukaryotes are different and more complex than prokaryotic gene regulation. This is difficult for me to keep track of.
ID151	I understood the concept and the purpose of attenuation, but it was hard for me to visualize the process of attenuation occurring within prokaryotic gene sequences such as the trp operon. I had read the book which allowed to comprehend the concept, but I watched YouTube videos to help better understand the process.
ID004	even if i expanded upon this topic in this section, you would not give me full points anyways because there would be one tiny detail missing that you thought that i had to put down
ID113	I'm confused on how/what the swi-snf mutant affects
ID053	This concept was hardest to understand because there are many different concepts compacted into this one.  Many differences exist in gene regulation between eukaryotes and prokaryotes.
ID128	I understand how the swi-snf complex works and the importance of it to eukaryotes and the repositioning of nucleosomes; however, I do not remember this specific mutation and was unable to find it in the book. I believe I have an idea of what happens because I have a good understanding of the way a swi-snf mutation should work.
ID114	I have a grasp of attenuation, but I do not understand translational-attenuation. I think my main issue is being able to grasp the structure of the Shine-Dalgarno sequence, which makes it inaccessible.
ID011	I feel as though I only have a vague understanding of transcription factors. I do not know specifically how they function but I do have a general idea.
ID115	I understand the function and most of the processes involved with promoters, but I need to better understand how it enhances or inhibits transcription and its role with RNA polymerase.
ID094	The mechanism of promoter function was not explained in much detail in class so this concept was less clear than the others listed.
ID137	I understand how DNA is made into fragments and then made into new strands with complementary DNA, but I still am unsure as to why that specifically helps against bacteriophages. I think it has to do with the prokaryote being unable to replicate the viral DNA because of its fragmentation, ultimately losing the virus's sequence - but again, I am not sure.
ID039	I didn't and still don't fully understand this concept. The notes and powerpoint contradicts each other. One says cis-acting and the other trans-acting. That confused me a bit. The notes on the topic was very brief and the information in the book was a little challenging for me to wrap my head around.
ID026	I have found this topic the most difficult to understand because I am still not clear on how they are able to tell proteins that certain parts of the sequence should be expressed more than others. How are promoters able to tell them what to do and how do they cooperate with each other to do this?
ID038	While working in the lab, I have come across most of these topics and I understand how they work and why it is so very well. I have read numerous research papers about them as well.
ID015	The transcription initiation complex is composed of promoter sequences and DNA binding proteins. These two components of transcription are normally described as cis-acting elements and trans-acting factors.
ID084	I understand all the smaller parts, but sequencing in general is broad and harder for me to understand. I know it has changed a lot of what we know about transcription and translation.
ID077	I am a little confused on DNA sequencing still because it seems like it would take a long time to read all the fragments it produces. I think I need a further understanding of the technology involved.
ID131	I find this the most challenging concept because I do not know exactly how the restriction enzyme recognizes when to bind and cleave on the DNA sequence. I do not know the exact route of action, and I do not know if that is even required, but it clouds things up not knowing.
ID090	While I believe that I understand this topic now, it was originally very hard for me to grasp this concept. The different methods of DNA sequencing (particularly Sanger and pyrosequencing) are methods based. The way that Dr. Hughes went over these topics in lecture was very confusing as it is hard to visualize the specific laboratory techniques.
ID022	I find DNA sequencing challenging to understand because it has so many steps to it. The powerpoint slides do not do a very good job of explaining it in detail. I tried reading the book but the book uses terms I do not understand. i dont understand how primers are inserted and i also dont know why the same restricition enzymes are used in order to cut a sequence?
ID065	This was the hardest for me to understand because I do not know how transcription factors are recruited. I understand why they are necessary and how they work, and I understand how they are trans-acting, but I do not know how they find the sequence and help polymerase bind. This confuses me because I do not know how they can just come to the promoter sequence when they are needed. It would be much more clear if I knew the exact mechanism by which transcription factors are recruited.
ID130	not really sure what cis- acting means
ID151	I understood this topic really well; however, I feel that whatever information I currently know about this topic is very minimal when compared to what could be covered or specifically what material I should know in addition to my current knowledge. I looked up some uses of DNA sequencing which also helped me broaden areas and regions this advancement in genetics has enhanced or impacted.
ID082	This concept is the most confusing to me because I dont understand how, in a prokaryotic bacterial cell, restriction enzymes could exist and cut DNA sequences into fragments without affecting the bacterial DNA. I think this is confusing to me because prokaryotic cells lack a nucleus, so the bacterial DNA in the bacterial genome is exposed to whatever is in the cytoplasm of the cell. I think I must be missing an aspect of the defense mechanism that protects the bacterial DNA itself from being damaged and cut by the restriction enzymes.
ID081	I understand the purpose of restriction enzymes is to cut DNA at specific sites within the chromosome. However, I do not fully understand how this is a defense mechanism.
ID016	I find this concept hard to understand because in general, eukaryotic transcription is incredibly complicated. I feel like transcription factors are one of the major points of eukaryotic regulation and that not understanding how they function molecularly hindered my understanding of the topic.
ID035	I was a bit confused on this subject and being able to express more about it. I found it hard to go into detail about this subject and really be able to understand the concept
ID109	I was really confused with why promoters are cis acting DNA sequences that together act to regulate gene expression. I understand why and how promoters act together to regulate gene expression, but I did not understand why it mattered if they were cis acting. Would it be the same if the were trans acting?
ID129	I don't understand what specific DNA binding motifs are
ID101	How trans acting proteins work was barely discussed in the class.
ID070	I do not really know too much about promoters and cis acting DNA sequences. So i need to read more about it
ID020	I found that this was the most challenging topic because it is hard for me to keep up with so many different promoters and exactly what they do and how they help with gene expression.
ID119	This is the most challenging concept for me to grasp, simply because I do not know what all exactly DNA sequencing has allowed geneticists to accomplish. I understand that this discovery and ability has led to faster retrieval of data and a greater understand of DNA and genetics in general. I just don't really understand how the process works, or what all exactly DNA sequencing allows us to understand about genes and gene expression.
ID044	Transcription factors are probably the most difficult because there are so many different factors that must bind to initiate transcription. It is also difficult to understand where the specific DNA binding motifs are and how they actually bind.
ID138	I think the biggest problem is that there are different sequencing processes that can be difficult to tell apart and it is hard to describe them sometimes.
ID027	The specific processes of sequencing are difficult to memorize and keep separate. The process itself is not difficult, but I believe a chart or something would be useful for telling them apart.
ID046	I find this the most difficult due to its several mechanisms and sequencing with sticky ends.
ID087	I believe I have a lower understanding of the restriction enzymes, because I don't fully understand how the enzymes recognize the invading DNA.
ID066	There are a lot of different aspects to how transcription factors work and recognize certain binding sites, it is all a bit difficult to remember.
ID069	I feel like I don't really have a good grasp on DNA sequencing. I understand it to be deciphering the order of bases, but my confusion arises on how these bases stack up against different species and even members of the same species.
ID060	This is confusing because there are many regulators, repressors, and inducers that regulate gene expression and it takes practice to try to understand them.
ID058	I understand the purpose of restrictions enzymes is to slice of viral DNA at restriction sites and that places where restriction sites vary are called RFLPs. However, I am unsure of what determines a restriction site in the first place.
ID034	a restriction enzyme recognizes ad binds to DNA at a specific nucleotide sequence. the enzyme then cuts both strands of the DNA within that sequence by cleaving the phosphodiester backbone of DNA
ID098	There are just sooooo many transcription factors and it is difficult to keep up with them, as well as the elements to which they bind.
ID093	I need to review cis-acting transcription factors. I know little about how portions of DNA do not code for a protein yet still regulate transcription.
ID116	I have found this to be the hardest to understand. I'm confused about transcription factors, so therefore I cannot understand the concept. Transcription factors are the "gist" of this sentence, therefore I'm confused about the entirety of the concept.
ID024	I understand what a promoter is, but I am still uncertain as to what it actually does. I thought it promoted gene regulation, but it seems to be much more than that.
ID064	The hardest thing to understand about transcription factors is their relationship to the promoter sequences, and the sheer number of them. It is very confusing trying to remember which transcription factors bind in what order and what other proteins they recruit. However, I understand the general idea that they are proteins that facilitate transcription and gene regulation by binding to certain areas of DNA.
ID000	I think they will find the whole concept eukaryote gene regulation very difficult including transcription factor binding and function
ID056	I understand the function of promoters but the true definition of a cis-acting structure is that is must be located adjacent to what it is promoting. From my knowledge, the TATA box and CAAT box are located upstream from the region it promotes so that was a bit confusing.
ID104	Trying to think about how this one single topic has changed the entire world is pretty crazy and kind of hard to wrap my head around just how impactful it truly has been.
ID089	There are many methods of DNA sequencing, many of which I do not understand fully. Simply because of the number and detail of them all, I have found it difficult to remember the specific parts of each specific method of sequencing.
ID118	I didn't understand why PCR is just used to make billion of copy of single fragment between the primer and also be used for DNA sequencing as Sangars protocol is unidirectional PCR that is used to sequence the DNA of interest after or before cloning of the DNA. I don't understand why pyrosequencing is not used widely if it gives accurate results and detected by the light it gives off.
ID072	Promoters are cis acting DNA Sequences. Not very familiar with this topic.
ID103	This was a little bit hard to get at first just because the cis trans terms are not really that related to the previous ways I have seen them used.
ID085	This was hardest to understand because the book claims these degrade viral DNA. However, no examples were provided, meaning that I had to look this concept up on my own.
ID048	I need to understand this in detail.
ID055	This topic is very broad therefore it made it the most difficult to talk about.
ID036	Promoters in Eukaryotes can be focused (a single TATA box) or diffuse (several potential transcription start sites). Eukaryotic promoters consist of proximal promoter elements (TATA, CAT and GC-rich regions), Enhancers are cis-acting sequences that up-regulate gene expression and can be found at some distance from the gene itself. Chromosome looping brings enhancers and the proteins that are bond to them into contact with promoter proximal elements to activate transcription.
ID120	This is difficult to understand because I previously understood that this was preformed in lab conditions, but supposedly the bacteria can preform this process on their own.
ID139	I don't really understand what determines whether or not the DNA is fit to be bound. I understand the general structure of these transcription factors, just not how they perform their function because it seems a bit random to me.
ID050	I feel like I missed the certain portions of the lecture where we went into deep understanding of this and when I looked in the book it was very vague on its explanation.
ID099	Somewhat of a broad-stroke topic; yes they are important and do alot but what specific functions are universal in TF's
ID013	I found this topic challenging but interesting. It was challenging because the processes of sequencing are very complex and hard to read the results. For example, the pyrosequencing was difficult to understand the mechanism of how the flash of light is created and how that is recorded to be a certain base.
ID136	This is the most challenging for me because the concept of gene expression could be hard to understand fully.
ID108	There are so many different types of sequencing techniques that have been accomplished by 2015 and it is hard to understand the procedures without actually performing the techniques.
ID144	At first, restriction enzymes confused me a little bit. After reading my book and asking friends for help I was able to get a better understanding of this topic.
ID021	It is hard to visualize just how transcription factors interact with the DNA sequences. All of these proteins involved in the making of proteins can overlap and become confusing after awhile. Because I cannot picture their function, it is more difficult to understand their properties and their effects.
ID014	I do not understand how restriction enzymes are bacterial defense mechanisms. I think that there was an emphasis on how restriction enzymes are used for DNA recombination.
ID113	I don't under why transcription factors are only trans-acting and not cis-acting
ID091	Promotors are in a large category with all gene regulation. I found gene regulation to be terminology dense, and took some practice to grasp completely.
ID126	I think this is the most hard to understand topic because there are so may different components to regulate gene expression and they are easily confused
ID068	It is difficult to understand the process of the pyrosequencing.
ID107	I understand the basic concepts of DNA sequencing, but I have a hard time picturing the specific techniques used.
ID142	I do not think how restriction enzymes are used in bacteria was emphasized as much as how restriction enzymes are used in other ways. I think that is evident in my other answers on the LSA. Thus, I had to kind of learn how they specifically are defense mechanisms for bacteria.
ID088	I found this concept difficult to understand. I had to read through my notes a few times in order to fully understand exactly how restriction enzymes protect against invading viruses.
ID080	I know how the restriction enzymes provide protection for the bacteria from bacteriophages but there are just a lot of different types of viruses and enzymes. It can get confusing with the specificity of the study.
ID063	This and the trans acting topic were both difficult to understand. I didn't understand it in lecture or by reading the slides, but the book and my study grouped helped grasp the concept. I can talk about the basics of this topic but that is as far as it goes.
ID078	i understood their origin, i was unsure of how they were discovered and implimented
ID023	I found keeping up with the large amount of material in this chapter and the small details challenging. I understand what tf are as well as what they do; however, I feel as if I need to go back and review the specifics concerning tf.
ID123	This is the most challenging topic because I know what transcription factors do, but I don't know what the binding motifs do.  I do not know how the helix-turn-helix, zinc finger, and leucine zipper allow for the transcription factors to bind and allow for transcription to proceed.
ID149	I'm pretty confused about some of the topics on these surveys. I feel like we don't talk much about them in class.
ID053	This concept is just the most broad and vague.  It's difficult to point out all of the ways DNA sequencing has revolutionized genetics.
ID059	Promoters that are cis acting DNA sequences together act to regulate gene expression is the most challenging to understand because I know that there are also trans acting proteins that are responsible for DNA binding roles that plays a major deal in gene expression. Between the two I think my overall problem with a clear understanding of this topic in particular is the idea of trying to make sure I know the specific roles of each cis and trans-acting proteins to distinguish the main differences between the two.
ID140	This is just difficult because of all the steps involved and learning about all the restriction enzymes.
ID117	I have a strong understanding of DNA sequencing, but the wording of this concept was a little confusing to me. I wasn't exactly sure what specifically I was supposed to write or what was expected of me to write.
ID141	The book and the powerpoints varied in the explanation of which cis acting promoters were proximal and which were core.  The book said that the TATA box was a core promoter, while the powerpoints said the TATA box was a proximal promoter.
ID145	The idea of some things being able to act on different chromosomes and other things not being able to is confusing because it is hard to remember what is what.
ID006	extremely confused about the 6 slides related to promoters.  I didn't see how they related to the gene expression.
ID083	Promoters in Eukaryotes can be focused (a single TATA box) or diffuse (several potential transcription start sites). Eukaryotic promoters consist of proximal promoter elements (TATA, CAT and GC-rich regions), Enhancers are cis-acting sequences that up-regulate gene expression and can be found at some distance from the gene itself. Chromosome looping brings enhancers and the proteins that are bond to them into contact with promoter proximal elements to activate transcription.
